240514
========

----------
Survey (2)
----------

`[2405.07468] Evaluating large language models in medical applications: a survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07468>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 05:08:33 GMT
    Xiaolan Chen, Jiayang Xiang, Shanfu Lu, Yexin Liu, Mingguang He, Danli Shi

Large language models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools with transformative potential across numerous domains, including healthcare and medicine. In the medical domain, LLMs hold promise for tasks ranging from clinical decision support to patient education. However, evaluating the performance of LLMs in medical contexts presents unique challenges due to the complex and critical nature of medical information. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of the landscape of medical LLM evaluation, synthesizing insights from existing studies and highlighting evaluation data sources, task scenarios, and evaluation methods. Additionally, it identifies key challenges and opportunities in medical LLM evaluation, emphasizing the need for continued research and innovation to ensure the responsible integration of LLMs into clinical practice.

------------

`[2310.17894] Natural Language Interfaces for Tabular Data Querying and Visualization: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17894>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 09:44:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Haiqin Yang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 27 Oct 2023 05:01:20 UTC (1,018 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 09:44:35 UTC (551 KB)
    Weixu Zhang, Yifei Wang, Yuanfeng Song, Victor Junqiu Wei, Yuxing Tian, Yiyan Qi, Jonathan H. Chan, Raymond Chi-Wing Wong, Haiqin Yang

The emergence of natural language processing has revolutionized the way users interact with tabular data, enabling a shift from traditional query languages and manual plotting to more intuitive, language-based interfaces. The rise of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and its successors has further advanced this field, opening new avenues for natural language processing techniques. This survey presents a comprehensive overview of natural language interfaces for tabular data querying and visualization, which allow users to interact with data using natural language queries. We introduce the fundamental concepts and techniques underlying these interfaces with a particular emphasis on semantic parsing, the key technology facilitating the translation from natural language to SQL queries or data visualization commands. We then delve into the recent advancements in Text-to-SQL and Text-to-Vis problems from the perspectives of datasets, methodologies, metrics, and system designs. This includes a deep dive into the influence of LLMs, highlighting their strengths, limitations, and potential for future improvements. Through this survey, we aim to provide a roadmap for researchers and practitioners interested in developing and applying natural language interfaces for data interaction in the era of large language models.

------------

-------------
Benchmark (8)
-------------

`[2405.07348] MedConceptsQA -- Open Source Medical Concepts QA Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07348>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 17:54:50 GMT
    Ofir Ben Shoham, Nadav Rappoport

We present MedConceptsQA, a dedicated open source benchmark for medical concepts question answering. The benchmark comprises of questions of various medical concepts across different vocabularies: diagnoses, procedures, and drugs. The questions are categorized into three levels of difficulty: easy, medium, and hard. We conducted evaluations of the benchmark using various Large Language Models. Our findings show that pre-trained clinical Large Language Models achieved accuracy levels close to random guessing on this benchmark, despite being pre-trained on medical data. However, GPT-4 achieves an absolute average improvement of nearly 27%-37% (27% for zero-shot learning and 37% for few-shot learning) when compared to clinical Large Language Models. Our benchmark serves as a valuable resource for evaluating the understanding and reasoning of medical concepts by Large Language Models. Our benchmark is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/ofir408/MedConceptsQA

------------

`[2405.07609] NoiseBench: Benchmarking the Impact of Real Label Noise on Named Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07609>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 10:20:31 GMT
    Elena Merdjanovska, Ansar Aynetdinov, Alan Akbik

Available training data for named entity recognition (NER) often contains a significant percentage of incorrect labels for entity types and entity boundaries. Such label noise poses challenges for supervised learning and may significantly deteriorate model quality. To address this, prior work proposed various noise-robust learning approaches capable of learning from data with partially incorrect labels. These approaches are typically evaluated using simulated noise where the labels in a clean dataset are automatically corrupted. However, as we show in this paper, this leads to unrealistic noise that is far easier to handle than real noise caused by human error or semi-automatic annotation. To enable the study of the impact of various types of real noise, we introduce NoiseBench, an NER benchmark consisting of clean training data corrupted with 6 types of real noise, including expert errors, crowdsourcing errors, automatic annotation errors and LLM errors. We present an analysis that shows that real noise is significantly more challenging than simulated noise, and show that current state-of-the-art models for noise-robust learning fall far short of their theoretically achievable upper bound. We release NoiseBench to the research community.

------------

`[2405.07938] EconLogicQA: A Question-Answering Benchmark for Evaluating Large Language Models in Economic Sequential Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07938>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 17:13:47 GMT
    Yinzhu Quan, Zefang Liu

In this paper, we introduce EconLogicQA, a rigorous benchmark designed to assess the sequential reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) within the intricate realms of economics, business, and supply chain management. Diverging from traditional benchmarks that predict subsequent events individually, EconLogicQA poses a more challenging task: it requires models to discern and sequence multiple interconnected events, capturing the complexity of economic logics. EconLogicQA comprises an array of multi-event scenarios derived from economic articles, which necessitate an insightful understanding of both temporal and logical event relationships. Through comprehensive evaluations, we exhibit that EconLogicQA effectively gauges a LLM's proficiency in navigating the sequential complexities inherent in economic contexts. We provide a detailed description of EconLogicQA dataset and shows the outcomes from evaluating the benchmark across various leading-edge LLMs, thereby offering a thorough perspective on their sequential reasoning potential in economic contexts. Our benchmark dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/yinzhu-quan/econ_logic_qa.

------------

`[2405.07990] Plot2Code: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Multi-modal Large Language Models in Code Generation from Scientific Plots <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07990>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 17:59:22 GMT
    Chengyue Wu, Yixiao Ge, Qiushan Guo, Jiahao Wang, Zhixuan Liang, Zeyu Lu, Ying Shan, Ping Luo

The remarkable progress of Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has attracted significant attention due to their superior performance in visual contexts. However, their capabilities in turning visual figure to executable code, have not been evaluated thoroughly. To address this, we introduce Plot2Code, a comprehensive visual coding benchmark designed for a fair and in-depth assessment of MLLMs. We carefully collect 132 manually selected high-quality matplotlib plots across six plot types from publicly available matplotlib galleries. For each plot, we carefully offer its source code, and an descriptive instruction summarized by GPT-4. This approach enables Plot2Code to extensively evaluate MLLMs' code capabilities across various input modalities.
Furthermore, we propose three automatic evaluation metrics, including code pass rate, text-match ratio, and GPT-4V overall rating, for a fine-grained assessment of the output code and rendered images. Instead of simply judging pass or fail, we employ GPT-4V to make an overall judgement between the generated and reference images, which has been shown to be consistent with human evaluation. The evaluation results, which include analyses of 14 MLLMs such as the proprietary GPT-4V, Gemini-Pro, and the open-sourced Mini-Gemini, highlight the substantial challenges presented by Plot2Code. With Plot2Code, we reveal that most existing MLLMs struggle with visual coding for text-dense plots, heavily relying on textual instruction. We hope that the evaluation results from Plot2Code on visual coding will guide the future development of MLLMs. All data involved with Plot2Code are available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/TencentARC/Plot2Code.

------------

`[2405.06835] Automating Code Adaptation for MLOps -- A Benchmarking Study on LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06835>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 22:18:43 GMT
    Harsh Patel, Buvaneswari A. Ramanan, Manzoor A. Khan, Thomas Williams, Brian Friedman and Lawrence Drabeck

This paper explores the possibilities of the current generation of Large Language Models for incorporating Machine Learning Operations (MLOps) functionalities into ML training code bases. We evaluate the performance of OpenAI (gpt-3.5-turbo) and WizardCoder (open-source, 15B parameters) models on the automated accomplishment of various MLOps functionalities in different settings. We perform a benchmarking study that assesses the ability of these models to: (1) adapt existing code samples (Inlining) with component-specific MLOps functionality such as MLflow and Weights & Biases for experiment tracking, Optuna for hyperparameter optimization etc., and (2) perform the task of Translation from one component of an MLOps functionality to another, e.g., translating existing GitPython library based version control code to Data Version Control library based. We also propose three different approaches that involve teaching LLMs to comprehend the API documentation of the components as a reference while accomplishing the Translation tasks. In our evaluations, the gpt-3.5-turbo model significantly outperforms WizardCoder by achieving impressive Pass@3 accuracy in model optimization (55% compared to 0% by WizardCoder), experiment tracking (100%, compared to 62.5% by WizardCoder), model registration (92% compared to 42% by WizardCoder) and hyperparameter optimization (83% compared to 58% by WizardCoder) on average, in their best possible settings, showcasing its superior code adaptability performance in complex MLOps tasks.

------------

`[2405.07960] AgentClinic: a multimodal agent benchmark to evaluate AI in simulated clinical environments <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07960>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 17:38:53 GMT
    Samuel Schmidgall, Rojin Ziaei, Carl Harris, Eduardo Reis, Jeffrey Jopling, Michael Moor

Diagnosing and managing a patient is a complex, sequential decision making process that requires physicians to obtain information -- such as which tests to perform -- and to act upon it. Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) promise to profoundly impact clinical care. However, current evaluation schemes overrely on static medical question-answering benchmarks, falling short on interactive decision-making that is required in real-life clinical work. Here, we present AgentClinic: a multimodal benchmark to evaluate LLMs in their ability to operate as agents in simulated clinical environments. In our benchmark, the doctor agent must uncover the patient's diagnosis through dialogue and active data collection. We present two open benchmarks: a multimodal image and dialogue environment, AgentClinic-NEJM, and a dialogue-only environment, AgentClinic-MedQA. We embed cognitive and implicit biases both in patient and doctor agents to emulate realistic interactions between biased agents. We find that introducing bias leads to large reductions in diagnostic accuracy of the doctor agents, as well as reduced compliance, confidence, and follow-up consultation willingness in patient agents. Evaluating a suite of state-of-the-art LLMs, we find that several models that excel in benchmarks like MedQA are performing poorly in AgentClinic-MedQA. We find that the LLM used in the patient agent is an important factor for performance in the AgentClinic benchmark. We show that both having limited interactions as well as too many interaction reduces diagnostic accuracy in doctor agents. The code and data for this work is publicly available at https://AgentClinic.github.io.

------------

`[2404.06347] RAR-b: Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06347>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 18:23:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Chenghao Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:34:48 UTC (300 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 18:23:41 UTC (301 KB)
    Chenghao Xiao, G Thomas Hudson, Noura Al Moubayed

Semantic textual similartiy (STS) and information retrieval tasks (IR) tasks have been the two major avenues to record the progress of embedding models in the past few years. Under the emerging Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) paradigm, we envision the need to evaluate next-level language understanding abilities of embedding models, and take a conscious look at the reasoning abilities stored in them. Addressing this, we pose the question: Can retrievers solve reasoning problems? By transforming reasoning tasks into retrieval tasks, we find that without specifically trained for reasoning-level language understanding, current state-of-the-art retriever models may still be far from being competent for playing the role of assisting LLMs, especially in reasoning-intensive tasks. Moreover, albeit trained to be aware of instructions, instruction-aware IR models are often better off without instructions in inference time for reasoning tasks, posing an overlooked retriever-LLM behavioral gap for the research community to align. However, recent decoder-based embedding models show great promise in narrowing the gap, highlighting the pathway for embedding models to achieve reasoning-level language understanding. We also show that, although current off-the-shelf re-ranker models fail on these tasks, injecting reasoning abilities into them through fine-tuning still appears easier than doing so to bi-encoders, and we are able to achieve state-of-the-art performance across all tasks by fine-tuning a reranking model. We release Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark (RAR-b), a holistic suite of tasks and settings to evaluate the reasoning abilities stored in retriever models. RAR-b is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.07844] Mercury: An Efficiency Benchmark for LLM Code Synthesis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07844>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 06:21:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Mingzhe Du [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 17:53:22 UTC (2,757 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 06:21:01 UTC (3,629 KB)
    Mingzhe Du, Anh Tuan Luu, Bin Ji, Qian Liu, See-Kiong Ng

Amidst the recent strides in evaluating Large Language Models for Code (Code-LLMs), existing benchmarks have mainly focused on functional correctness, overlooking the importance of computational efficiency. To fill the gap, we present Mercury, the first computational efficiency benchmark for Code-LLMs. It comprises 1,889 Python tasks, each with adequate solutions to support a runtime distribution. Based on the distribution, we introduce a new metric Beyond, which computes a runtime-percentile-weighted Pass score to reflect functional correctness and computational efficiency simultaneously. On Mercury, leading Code-LLMs can achieve 67% on Pass, while less than 50% on Beyond. Given that an ideal Beyond score would be aligned with the Pass score, it indicates that while Code-LLMs exhibit impressive capabilities in generating functionally correct code, there remains a notable gap in their efficiency. Finally, our empirical experiments reveal that Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) serves as a robust baseline for enhancing computational efficiency compared with Supervised Fine Tuning (SFT), which paves a promising avenue for future exploration of efficient code generation.

------------

--------------
Accelerate (5)
--------------

`[2405.06671] Parameter-Efficient Instruction Tuning of Large Language Models For Extreme Financial Numeral Labelling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06671>`__

::

    Fri, 3 May 2024 16:41:36 GMT
    Subhendu Khatuya, Rajdeep Mukherjee, Akash Ghosh, Manjunath Hegde, Koustuv Dasgupta, Niloy Ganguly, Saptarshi Ghosh, Pawan Goyal

We study the problem of automatically annotating relevant numerals (GAAP metrics) occurring in the financial documents with their corresponding XBRL tags. Different from prior works, we investigate the feasibility of solving this extreme classification problem using a generative paradigm through instruction tuning of Large Language Models (LLMs). To this end, we leverage metric metadata information to frame our target outputs while proposing a parameter efficient solution for the task using LoRA. We perform experiments on two recently released financial numeric labeling datasets. Our proposed model, FLAN-FinXC, achieves new state-of-the-art performances on both the datasets, outperforming several strong baselines. We explain the better scores of our proposed model by demonstrating its capability for zero-shot as well as the least frequently occurring tags. Also, even when we fail to predict the XBRL tags correctly, our generated output has substantial overlap with the ground-truth in majority of the cases.

------------

`[2405.07542] EMS-SD: Efficient Multi-sample Speculative Decoding for Accelerating Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07542>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 08:24:21 GMT
    Yunsheng Ni, Chuanjian Liu, Yehui Tang, Kai Han, Yunhe Wang

Speculative decoding emerges as a pivotal technique for enhancing the inference speed of Large Language Models (LLMs). Despite recent research aiming to improve prediction efficiency, multi-sample speculative decoding has been overlooked due to varying numbers of accepted tokens within a batch in the verification phase. Vanilla method adds padding tokens in order to ensure that the number of new tokens remains consistent across samples. However, this increases the computational and memory access overhead, thereby reducing the speedup ratio. We propose a novel method that can resolve the issue of inconsistent tokens accepted by different samples without necessitating an increase in memory or computing overhead. Furthermore, our proposed method can handle the situation where the prediction tokens of different samples are inconsistent without the need to add padding tokens. Sufficient experiments demonstrate the efficacy of our method. Our code is available at https://github.com/niyunsheng/EMS-SD.

------------

`[2405.07135] Combining multiple post-training techniques to achieve most efficient quantized LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07135>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 02:15:26 GMT
    Sayeh Sharify, Zifei Xu, Wanzin Yazar, Xin Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) have distinguished themselves with outstanding performance in complex language modeling tasks, yet they come with significant computational and storage challenges. This paper explores the potential of quantization to mitigate these challenges. We systematically study the combined application of two well-known post-training techniques, SmoothQuant and GPTQ, and provide a comprehensive analysis of their interactions and implications for advancing LLM quantization. We enhance the versatility of both techniques by enabling quantization to microscaling (MX) formats, expanding their applicability beyond their initial fixed-point format targets. We show that by applying GPTQ and SmoothQuant, and employing MX formats for quantizing models, we can achieve a significant reduction in the size of OPT models by up to 4x and LLaMA models by up to 3x with a negligible perplexity increase of 1-3%.

------------

`[2405.07840] Open-vocabulary Auditory Neural Decoding Using fMRI-prompted LLM <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07840>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 15:25:11 GMT
    Xiaoyu Chen, Changde Du, Che Liu, Yizhe Wang, Huiguang He

Decoding language information from brain signals represents a vital research area within brain-computer interfaces, particularly in the context of deciphering the semantic information from the fMRI signal. However, many existing efforts concentrate on decoding small vocabulary sets, leaving space for the exploration of open vocabulary continuous text decoding. In this paper, we introduce a novel method, the \textbf{Brain Prompt GPT (BP-GPT)}. By using the brain representation that is extracted from the fMRI as a prompt, our method can utilize GPT-2 to decode fMRI signals into stimulus text. Further, we introduce a text-to-text baseline and align the fMRI prompt to the text prompt.
By introducing the text-to-text baseline, our BP-GPT can extract a more robust brain prompt and promote the decoding of pre-trained LLM. We evaluate our BP-GPT on the open-source auditory semantic decoding dataset and achieve a significant improvement up to $4.61\%$ on METEOR and $2.43\%$ on BERTScore across all the subjects compared to the state-of-the-art method. The experimental results demonstrate that using brain representation as a prompt to further drive LLM for auditory neural decoding is feasible and effective.

------------

`[2405.03869] Outlier Gradient Analysis: Efficiently Improving Deep Learning Model Performance via Hessian-Free Influence Functions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.03869>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 20:20:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Anshuman Chhabra [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 6 May 2024 21:34:46 UTC (20,403 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 20:20:57 UTC (20,400 KB)
    Anshuman Chhabra, Bo Li, Jian Chen, Prasant Mohapatra, Hongfu Liu

Influence functions offer a robust framework for assessing the impact of each training data sample on model predictions, serving as a prominent tool in data-centric learning. Despite their widespread use in various tasks, the strong convexity assumption on the model and the computational cost associated with calculating the inverse of the Hessian matrix pose constraints, particularly when analyzing large deep models. This paper focuses on a classical data-centric scenario--trimming detrimental samples--and addresses both challenges within a unified framework. Specifically, we establish an equivalence transformation between identifying detrimental training samples via influence functions and outlier gradient detection. This transformation not only presents a straightforward and Hessian-free formulation but also provides profound insights into the role of the gradient in sample impact. Moreover, it relaxes the convexity assumption of influence functions, extending their applicability to non-convex deep models. Through systematic empirical evaluations, we first validate the correctness of our proposed outlier gradient analysis on synthetic datasets and then demonstrate its effectiveness in detecting mislabeled samples in vision models, selecting data samples for improving performance of transformer models for natural language processing, and identifying influential samples for fine-tuned Large Language Models.

------------

-----------------------
In-Context Learning (1)
-----------------------

`[2402.08674] Human Curriculum Effects Emerge with In-Context Learning in Neural Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08674>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 08:24:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Jacob Russin [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 18:55:27 UTC (5,376 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 08:24:38 UTC (17,604 KB)
    Jacob Russin, Ellie Pavlick, Michael J. Frank

Human learning is sensitive to rule-like structure and the curriculum of examples used for training. In tasks governed by succinct rules, learning is more robust when related examples are blocked across trials, but in the absence of such rules, interleaving is more effective. To date, no neural model has simultaneously captured these seemingly contradictory effects. Here we show that this same tradeoff spontaneously emerges with ``in-context learning'' (ICL) both in neural networks trained with metalearning and in large language models (LLMs). ICL is the ability to learn new tasks ``in context'' -- without weight changes -- via an inner-loop algorithm implemented in activation dynamics. Experiments with pretrained LLMs and metalearning transformers show that ICL exhibits the blocking advantage demonstrated in humans on a task involving rule-like structure, and conversely, that concurrent in-weight learning reproduces the interleaving advantage observed in humans on tasks lacking such structure.

------------

-------------
Reasoning (6)
-------------

`[2405.06680] Exploring the Compositional Deficiency of Large Language Models in Mathematical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06680>`__

::

    Sun, 5 May 2024 16:35:30 GMT
    Jun Zhao, Jingqi Tong, Yurong Mou, Ming Zhang, Qi Zhang, Xuanjing Huang

Human cognition exhibits systematic compositionality, the algebraic ability to generate infinite novel combinations from finite learned components, which is the key to understanding and reasoning about complex logic. In this work, we investigate the compositionality of large language models (LLMs) in mathematical reasoning. Specifically, we construct a new dataset \textsc{MathTrap}\footnotemark[3] by introducing carefully designed logical traps into the problem descriptions of MATH and GSM8k. Since problems with logical flaws are quite rare in the real world, these represent ``unseen'' cases to LLMs. Solving these requires the models to systematically compose (1) the mathematical knowledge involved in the original problems with (2) knowledge related to the introduced traps. Our experiments show that while LLMs possess both components of requisite knowledge, they do not \textbf{spontaneously} combine them to handle these novel cases. We explore several methods to mitigate this deficiency, such as natural language prompts, few-shot demonstrations, and fine-tuning. We find that LLMs' performance can be \textbf{passively} improved through the above external intervention. Overall, systematic compositionality remains an open challenge for large language models.

------------

`[2405.06705] LLMs can Find Mathematical Reasoning Mistakes by Pedagogical Chain-of-Thought <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06705>`__

::

    Thu, 9 May 2024 07:37:34 GMT
    Zhuoxuan Jiang and Haoyuan Peng and Shanshan Feng and Fan Li and Dongsheng Li

Self-correction is emerging as a promising approach to mitigate the issue of hallucination in Large Language Models (LLMs). To facilitate effective self-correction, recent research has proposed mistake detection as its initial step. However, current literature suggests that LLMs often struggle with reliably identifying reasoning mistakes when using simplistic prompting strategies. To address this challenge, we introduce a unique prompting strategy, termed the Pedagogical Chain-of-Thought (PedCoT), which is specifically designed to guide the identification of reasoning mistakes, particularly mathematical reasoning mistakes. PedCoT consists of pedagogical principles for prompts (PPP) design, two-stage interaction process (TIP) and grounded PedCoT prompts, all inspired by the educational theory of the Bloom Cognitive Model (BCM). We evaluate our approach on two public datasets featuring math problems of varying difficulty levels. The experiments demonstrate that our zero-shot prompting strategy significantly outperforms strong baselines. The proposed method can achieve the goal of reliable mathematical mistake identification and provide a foundation for automatic math answer grading. The results underscore the significance of educational theory, serving as domain knowledge, in guiding prompting strategy design for addressing challenging tasks with LLMs effectively.

------------

`[2405.06707] Hypothesis Testing Prompting Improves Deductive Reasoning in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06707>`__

::

    Thu, 9 May 2024 08:46:17 GMT
    Yitian Li, Jidong Tian, Hao He, Yaohui Jin

Combining different forms of prompts with pre-trained large language models has yielded remarkable results on reasoning tasks (e.g. Chain-of-Thought prompting). However, along with testing on more complex reasoning, these methods also expose problems such as invalid reasoning and fictional reasoning paths. In this paper, we develop \textit{Hypothesis Testing Prompting}, which adds conclusion assumptions, backward reasoning, and fact verification during intermediate reasoning steps. \textit{Hypothesis Testing prompting} involves multiple assumptions and reverses validation of conclusions leading to its unique correct answer. Experiments on two challenging deductive reasoning datasets ProofWriter and RuleTaker show that hypothesis testing prompting not only significantly improves the effect, but also generates a more reasonable and standardized reasoning process.

------------

`[2405.07551] MuMath-Code: Combining Tool-Use Large Language Models with Multi-perspective Data Augmentation for Mathematical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07551>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 08:32:19 GMT
    Shuo Yin, Weihao You, Zhilong Ji, Guoqiang Zhong, Jinfeng Bai

The tool-use Large Language Models (LLMs) that integrate with external Python interpreters have significantly enhanced mathematical reasoning capabilities for open-source LLMs, while tool-free methods chose another track: augmenting math reasoning data. However, a great method to integrate the above two research paths and combine their advantages remains to be explored. In this work, we firstly include new math questions via multi-perspective data augmenting methods and then synthesize code-nested solutions to them. The open LLMs (i.e., Llama-2) are finetuned on the augmented dataset to get the resulting models, MuMath-Code ($\mu$-Math-Code). During the inference phase, our MuMath-Code generates code and interacts with the external python interpreter to get the execution results. Therefore, MuMath-Code leverages the advantages of both the external tool and data augmentation. To fully leverage the advantages of our augmented data, we propose a two-stage training strategy: In Stage-1, we finetune Llama-2 on pure CoT data to get an intermediate model, which then is trained on the code-nested data in Stage-2 to get the resulting MuMath-Code. Our MuMath-Code-7B achieves 83.8 on GSM8K and 52.4 on MATH, while MuMath-Code-70B model achieves new state-of-the-art performance among open methods -- achieving 90.7% on GSM8K and 55.1% on MATH. Extensive experiments validate the combination of tool use and data augmentation, as well as our two-stage training strategy. We release the proposed dataset along with the associated code for public use.

------------

`[2405.07938] EconLogicQA: A Question-Answering Benchmark for Evaluating Large Language Models in Economic Sequential Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07938>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 17:13:47 GMT
    Yinzhu Quan, Zefang Liu

In this paper, we introduce EconLogicQA, a rigorous benchmark designed to assess the sequential reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) within the intricate realms of economics, business, and supply chain management. Diverging from traditional benchmarks that predict subsequent events individually, EconLogicQA poses a more challenging task: it requires models to discern and sequence multiple interconnected events, capturing the complexity of economic logics. EconLogicQA comprises an array of multi-event scenarios derived from economic articles, which necessitate an insightful understanding of both temporal and logical event relationships. Through comprehensive evaluations, we exhibit that EconLogicQA effectively gauges a LLM's proficiency in navigating the sequential complexities inherent in economic contexts. We provide a detailed description of EconLogicQA dataset and shows the outcomes from evaluating the benchmark across various leading-edge LLMs, thereby offering a thorough perspective on their sequential reasoning potential in economic contexts. Our benchmark dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/yinzhu-quan/econ_logic_qa.

------------

`[2404.06347] RAR-b: Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06347>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 18:23:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Chenghao Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:34:48 UTC (300 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 18:23:41 UTC (301 KB)
    Chenghao Xiao, G Thomas Hudson, Noura Al Moubayed

Semantic textual similartiy (STS) and information retrieval tasks (IR) tasks have been the two major avenues to record the progress of embedding models in the past few years. Under the emerging Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) paradigm, we envision the need to evaluate next-level language understanding abilities of embedding models, and take a conscious look at the reasoning abilities stored in them. Addressing this, we pose the question: Can retrievers solve reasoning problems? By transforming reasoning tasks into retrieval tasks, we find that without specifically trained for reasoning-level language understanding, current state-of-the-art retriever models may still be far from being competent for playing the role of assisting LLMs, especially in reasoning-intensive tasks. Moreover, albeit trained to be aware of instructions, instruction-aware IR models are often better off without instructions in inference time for reasoning tasks, posing an overlooked retriever-LLM behavioral gap for the research community to align. However, recent decoder-based embedding models show great promise in narrowing the gap, highlighting the pathway for embedding models to achieve reasoning-level language understanding. We also show that, although current off-the-shelf re-ranker models fail on these tasks, injecting reasoning abilities into them through fine-tuning still appears easier than doing so to bi-encoders, and we are able to achieve state-of-the-art performance across all tasks by fine-tuning a reranking model. We release Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark (RAR-b), a holistic suite of tasks and settings to evaluate the reasoning abilities stored in retriever models. RAR-b is available at this https URL.

------------

-----------
ToolUse (2)
-----------

`[2405.06684] QuakeBERT: Accurate Classification of Social Media Texts for Rapid Earthquake Impact Assessment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06684>`__

::

    Mon, 6 May 2024 10:52:21 GMT
    Jin Han, Zhe Zheng, Xin-Zheng Lu, Ke-Yin Chen, Jia-Rui Lin

Social media aids disaster response but suffers from noise, hindering accurate impact assessment and decision making for resilient cities, which few studies considered. To address the problem, this study proposes the first domain-specific LLM model and an integrated method for rapid earthquake impact assessment. First, a few categories are introduced to classify and filter microblogs considering their relationship to the physical and social impacts of earthquakes, and a dataset comprising 7282 earthquake-related microblogs from twenty earthquakes in different locations is developed as well. Then, with a systematic analysis of various influential factors, QuakeBERT, a domain-specific large language model (LLM), is developed and fine-tuned for accurate classification and filtering of microblogs. Meanwhile, an integrated method integrating public opinion trend analysis, sentiment analysis, and keyword-based physical impact quantification is introduced to assess both the physical and social impacts of earthquakes based on social media texts.
Experiments show that data diversity and data volume dominate the performance of QuakeBERT and increase the macro average F1 score by 27%, while the best classification model QuakeBERT outperforms the CNN- or RNN-based models by improving the macro average F1 score from 60.87% to 84.33%. Finally, the proposed approach is applied to assess two earthquakes with the same magnitude and focal depth. Results show that the proposed approach can effectively enhance the impact assessment process by accurate detection of noisy microblogs, which enables effective post-disaster emergency responses to create more resilient cities.

------------

`[2405.07551] MuMath-Code: Combining Tool-Use Large Language Models with Multi-perspective Data Augmentation for Mathematical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07551>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 08:32:19 GMT
    Shuo Yin, Weihao You, Zhilong Ji, Guoqiang Zhong, Jinfeng Bai

The tool-use Large Language Models (LLMs) that integrate with external Python interpreters have significantly enhanced mathematical reasoning capabilities for open-source LLMs, while tool-free methods chose another track: augmenting math reasoning data. However, a great method to integrate the above two research paths and combine their advantages remains to be explored. In this work, we firstly include new math questions via multi-perspective data augmenting methods and then synthesize code-nested solutions to them. The open LLMs (i.e., Llama-2) are finetuned on the augmented dataset to get the resulting models, MuMath-Code ($\mu$-Math-Code). During the inference phase, our MuMath-Code generates code and interacts with the external python interpreter to get the execution results. Therefore, MuMath-Code leverages the advantages of both the external tool and data augmentation. To fully leverage the advantages of our augmented data, we propose a two-stage training strategy: In Stage-1, we finetune Llama-2 on pure CoT data to get an intermediate model, which then is trained on the code-nested data in Stage-2 to get the resulting MuMath-Code. Our MuMath-Code-7B achieves 83.8 on GSM8K and 52.4 on MATH, while MuMath-Code-70B model achieves new state-of-the-art performance among open methods -- achieving 90.7% on GSM8K and 55.1% on MATH. Extensive experiments validate the combination of tool use and data augmentation, as well as our two-stage training strategy. We release the proposed dataset along with the associated code for public use.

------------

-----------------------
Retrieval-Augmented (8)
-----------------------

`[2405.06681] Leveraging Lecture Content for Improved Feedback: Explorations with GPT-4 and Retrieval Augmented Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06681>`__

::

    Sun, 5 May 2024 18:32:06 GMT
    Sven Jacobs, Steffen Jaschke

This paper presents the use of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) to improve the feedback generated by Large Language Models for programming tasks.
For this purpose, corresponding lecture recordings were transcribed and made available to the Large Language Model GPT-4 as external knowledge source together with timestamps as metainformation by using RAG. The purpose of this is to prevent hallucinations and to enforce the use of the technical terms and phrases from the lecture. In an exercise platform developed to solve programming problems for an introductory programming lecture, students can request feedback on their solutions generated by GPT-4. For this task GPT-4 receives the students' code solution, the compiler output, the result of unit tests and the relevant passages from the lecture notes available through the use of RAG as additional context. The feedback generated by GPT-4 should guide students to solve problems independently and link to the lecture content, using the time stamps of the transcript as meta-information. In this way, the corresponding lecture videos can be viewed immediately at the corresponding positions. For the evaluation, students worked with the tool in a workshop and decided for each feedback whether it should be extended by RAG or not. First results based on a questionnaire and the collected usage data show that the use of RAG can improve feedback generation and is preferred by students in some situations. Due to the slower speed of feedback generation, the benefits are situation dependent.

------------

`[2405.07467] MCS-SQL: Leveraging Multiple Prompts and Multiple-Choice Selection For Text-to-SQL Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07467>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 04:59:32 GMT
    Dongjun Lee, Choongwon Park, Jaehyuk Kim, Heesoo Park

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have enabled in-context learning (ICL)-based methods that significantly outperform fine-tuning approaches for text-to-SQL tasks. However, their performance is still considerably lower than that of human experts on benchmarks that include complex schemas and queries, such as BIRD. This study considers the sensitivity of LLMs to the prompts and introduces a novel approach that leverages multiple prompts to explore a broader search space for possible answers and effectively aggregate them. Specifically, we robustly refine the database schema through schema linking using multiple prompts. Thereafter, we generate various candidate SQL queries based on the refined schema and diverse prompts. Finally, the candidate queries are filtered based on their confidence scores, and the optimal query is obtained through a multiple-choice selection that is presented to the LLM. When evaluated on the BIRD and Spider benchmarks, the proposed method achieved execution accuracies of 65.5\% and 89.6\%, respectively, significantly outperforming previous ICL-based methods. Moreover, we established a new SOTA performance on the BIRD in terms of both the accuracy and efficiency of the generated queries.

------------

`[2405.07500] PromptLink: Leveraging Large Language Models for Cross-Source Biomedical Concept Linking <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07500>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 06:36:30 GMT
    Yuzhang Xie, Jiaying Lu, Joyce Ho, Fadi Nahab, Xiao Hu, Carl Yang

Linking (aligning) biomedical concepts across diverse data sources enables various integrative analyses, but it is challenging due to the discrepancies in concept naming conventions. Various strategies have been developed to overcome this challenge, such as those based on string-matching rules, manually crafted thesauri, and machine learning models. However, these methods are constrained by limited prior biomedical knowledge and can hardly generalize beyond the limited amounts of rules, thesauri, or training samples. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have exhibited impressive results in diverse biomedical NLP tasks due to their unprecedentedly rich prior knowledge and strong zero-shot prediction abilities. However, LLMs suffer from issues including high costs, limited context length, and unreliable predictions. In this research, we propose PromptLink, a novel biomedical concept linking framework that leverages LLMs. It first employs a biomedical-specialized pre-trained language model to generate candidate concepts that can fit in the LLM context windows. Then it utilizes an LLM to link concepts through two-stage prompts, where the first-stage prompt aims to elicit the biomedical prior knowledge from the LLM for the concept linking task and the second-stage prompt enforces the LLM to reflect on its own predictions to further enhance their reliability. Empirical results on the concept linking task between two EHR datasets and an external biomedical KG demonstrate the effectiveness of PromptLink. Furthermore, PromptLink is a generic framework without reliance on additional prior knowledge, context, or training data, making it well-suited for concept linking across various types of data sources. The source code is available at https://github.com/constantjxyz/PromptLink.

------------

`[2405.07767] Synthetic Test Collections for Retrieval Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07767>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 14:11:09 GMT
    Hossein A. Rahmani, Nick Craswell, Emine Yilmaz, Bhaskar Mitra, Daniel Campos

Test collections play a vital role in evaluation of information retrieval (IR) systems. Obtaining a diverse set of user queries for test collection construction can be challenging, and acquiring relevance judgments, which indicate the appropriateness of retrieved documents to a query, is often costly and resource-intensive. Generating synthetic datasets using Large Language Models (LLMs) has recently gained significant attention in various applications. In IR, while previous work exploited the capabilities of LLMs to generate synthetic queries or documents to augment training data and improve the performance of ranking models, using LLMs for constructing synthetic test collections is relatively unexplored. Previous studies demonstrate that LLMs have the potential to generate synthetic relevance judgments for use in the evaluation of IR systems. In this paper, we comprehensively investigate whether it is possible to use LLMs to construct fully synthetic test collections by generating not only synthetic judgments but also synthetic queries. In particular, we analyse whether it is possible to construct reliable synthetic test collections and the potential risks of bias such test collections may exhibit towards LLM-based models. Our experiments indicate that using LLMs it is possible to construct synthetic test collections that can reliably be used for retrieval evaluation.

------------

`[2404.06347] RAR-b: Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06347>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 18:23:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Chenghao Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:34:48 UTC (300 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 18:23:41 UTC (301 KB)
    Chenghao Xiao, G Thomas Hudson, Noura Al Moubayed

Semantic textual similartiy (STS) and information retrieval tasks (IR) tasks have been the two major avenues to record the progress of embedding models in the past few years. Under the emerging Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) paradigm, we envision the need to evaluate next-level language understanding abilities of embedding models, and take a conscious look at the reasoning abilities stored in them. Addressing this, we pose the question: Can retrievers solve reasoning problems? By transforming reasoning tasks into retrieval tasks, we find that without specifically trained for reasoning-level language understanding, current state-of-the-art retriever models may still be far from being competent for playing the role of assisting LLMs, especially in reasoning-intensive tasks. Moreover, albeit trained to be aware of instructions, instruction-aware IR models are often better off without instructions in inference time for reasoning tasks, posing an overlooked retriever-LLM behavioral gap for the research community to align. However, recent decoder-based embedding models show great promise in narrowing the gap, highlighting the pathway for embedding models to achieve reasoning-level language understanding. We also show that, although current off-the-shelf re-ranker models fail on these tasks, injecting reasoning abilities into them through fine-tuning still appears easier than doing so to bi-encoders, and we are able to achieve state-of-the-art performance across all tasks by fine-tuning a reranking model. We release Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark (RAR-b), a holistic suite of tasks and settings to evaluate the reasoning abilities stored in retriever models. RAR-b is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2405.02814] NegativePrompt: Leveraging Psychology for Large Language Models Enhancement via Negative Emotional Stimuli <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02814>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 16:11:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuan Wu [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 5 May 2024 05:06:07 UTC (433 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 16:11:48 UTC (435 KB)
    Xu Wang, Cheng Li, Yi Chang, Jindong Wang, Yuan Wu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have become integral to a wide spectrum of applications, ranging from traditional computing tasks to advanced artificial intelligence (AI) applications. This widespread adoption has spurred extensive research into LLMs across various disciplines, including the social sciences. Notably, studies have revealed that LLMs possess emotional intelligence, which can be further developed through positive emotional stimuli. This discovery raises an intriguing question: can negative emotions similarly influence LLMs, potentially enhancing their performance? In response to this question, we introduce NegativePrompt, a novel approach underpinned by psychological principles, involving ten specifically designed negative emotional stimuli. We embark on rigorous experimental evaluations of five LLMs including Flan-T5-Large, Vicuna, Llama 2, ChatGPT, and GPT-4, across a set of 45 tasks. The results are revealing: NegativePrompt markedly enhances the performance of LLMs, evidenced by relative improvements of 12.89% in Instruction Induction tasks and 46.25% in BIG-Bench tasks. Moreover, we conduct attention visualization experiments to decipher the underlying mechanisms of NegativePrompt's influence. Our research contributes significantly to the understanding of LLMs and emotion interaction, demonstrating the practical efficacy of NegativePrompt as an emotion-driven method and offering novel insights for the enhancement of LLMs in real-world applications. The code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2405.05904] Does Fine-Tuning LLMs on New Knowledge Encourage Hallucinations? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.05904>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 07:29:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Zorik Gekhman [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 9 May 2024 17:00:22 UTC (4,171 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 07:29:58 UTC (4,171 KB)
    Zorik Gekhman and Gal Yona and Roee Aharoni and Matan Eyal and Amir Feder and Roi Reichart and Jonathan Herzig

When large language models are aligned via supervised fine-tuning, they may encounter new factual information that was not acquired through pre-training. It is often conjectured that this can teach the model the behavior of hallucinating factually incorrect responses, as the model is trained to generate facts that are not grounded in its pre-existing knowledge. In this work, we study the impact of such exposure to new knowledge on the capability of the fine-tuned model to utilize its pre-existing knowledge. To this end, we design a controlled setup, focused on closed-book QA, where we vary the proportion of the fine-tuning examples that introduce new knowledge. We demonstrate that large language models struggle to acquire new factual knowledge through fine-tuning, as fine-tuning examples that introduce new knowledge are learned significantly slower than those consistent with the model's knowledge. However, we also find that as the examples with new knowledge are eventually learned, they linearly increase the model's tendency to hallucinate. Taken together, our results highlight the risk in introducing new factual knowledge through fine-tuning, and support the view that large language models mostly acquire factual knowledge through pre-training, whereas fine-tuning teaches them to use it more efficiently.

------------

`[2402.05099] Hydragen: High-Throughput LLM Inference with Shared Prefixes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05099>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 08:49:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Jordan Juravsky [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 18:53:01 UTC (1,750 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 08:49:44 UTC (1,141 KB)
    Jordan Juravsky, Bradley Brown, Ryan Ehrlich, Daniel Y. Fu, Christopher R\'e, Azalia Mirhoseini

Transformer-based large language models (LLMs) are now deployed to hundreds of millions of users. LLM inference is commonly performed on batches of sequences that share a prefix, such as few-shot examples or a chatbot system prompt. Decoding in this large-batch setting can be bottlenecked by the attention operation, which reads large key-value (KV) caches from memory and computes inefficient matrix-vector products for every sequence in the batch. In this work, we introduce Hydragen, a hardware-aware exact implementation of attention with shared prefixes. Hydragen computes attention over the shared prefix and unique suffixes separately. This decomposition enables efficient prefix attention by batching queries together across sequences, reducing redundant memory reads and enabling the use of hardware-friendly matrix multiplications. Our method can improve end-to-end CodeLlama-13b throughput by up to 32x against competitive baselines, with speedup growing with the batch size and shared prefix length. Hydragen also enables the use of very long shared contexts: with a large batch size, increasing the prefix length from 1K to 16K tokens decreases Hydragen throughput by less than 15%, while the throughput of baselines drops by over 90%. Hydragen generalizes beyond simple prefix-suffix decomposition and can be applied to tree-based prompt sharing patterns, allowing us to further reduce inference time on competitive programming problems by 55%.

------------

---------
Agent (8)
---------

`[2405.06643] Levels of AI Agents: from Rules to Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06643>`__

::

    Wed, 6 Mar 2024 23:02:30 GMT
    Yu Huang

AI agents are defined as artificial entities to perceive the environment, make decisions and take actions. Inspired by the 6 levels of autonomous driving by Society of Automotive Engineers, the AI agents are also categorized based on utilities and strongness, as the following levels: L0, no AI, with tools taking into account perception plus actions; L1, using rule-based AI; L2, making rule-based AI replaced by IL/RL-based AI, with additional reasoning & decision making; L3, applying LLM-based AI instead of IL/RL-based AI, additionally setting up memory & reflection; L4, based on L3, facilitating autonomous learning & generalization; L5, based on L4, appending personality of emotion and character and collaborative behavior with multi-agents.

------------

`[2405.06682] Self-Reflection in LLM Agents: Effects on Problem-Solving Performance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06682>`__

::

    Sun, 5 May 2024 18:56:46 GMT
    Matthew Renze, Erhan Guven

In this study, we investigated the effects of self-reflection in large language models (LLMs) on problem-solving performance. We instructed nine popular LLMs to answer a series of multiple-choice questions to provide a performance baseline. For each incorrectly answered question, we instructed eight types of self-reflecting LLM agents to reflect on their mistakes and provide themselves with guidance to improve problem-solving. Then, using this guidance, each self-reflecting agent attempted to re-answer the same questions.
Our results indicate that LLM agents are able to significantly improve their problem-solving performance through self-reflection ($p < 0.001$). In addition, we compared the various types of self-reflection to determine their individual contribution to performance. All code and data are available on GitHub at https://github.com/matthewrenze/self-reflection

------------

`[2405.06691] Fleet of Agents: Coordinated Problem Solving with Large Language Models using Genetic Particle Filtering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06691>`__

::

    Tue, 7 May 2024 09:36:23 GMT
    Akhil Arora, Lars Klein, Nearchos Potamitis, Roland Aydin, Caglar Gulcehre, Robert West

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly evolved, moving from simple output generation to complex reasoning and from stand-alone usage to being embedded into broader frameworks. In this paper, we introduce \emph{Fleet of Agents (FoA)}, a novel framework utilizing LLMs as agents to navigate through dynamic tree searches, employing a genetic-type particle filtering approach.
FoA spawns a multitude of agents, each exploring autonomously, followed by a selection phase where resampling based on a heuristic value function optimizes the balance between exploration and exploitation. This mechanism enables dynamic branching, adapting the exploration strategy based on discovered solutions. We experimentally validate FoA using two benchmark tasks, "Game of 24" and "Mini-Crosswords". FoA outperforms the previously proposed Tree-of-Thoughts method in terms of efficacy and efficiency: it significantly decreases computational costs (by calling the value function less frequently) while preserving comparable or even superior accuracy.

------------

`[2405.06907] CoRE: LLM as Interpreter for Natural Language Programming, Pseudo-Code Programming, and Flow Programming of AI Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06907>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 04:29:03 GMT
    Shuyuan Xu, Zelong Li, Kai Mei, Yongfeng Zhang

Since their inception, programming languages have trended towards greater readability and lower barriers for programmers. Following this trend, natural language can be a promising type of programming language that provides great flexibility and usability and helps towards the democracy of programming.
However, the inherent vagueness, ambiguity, and verbosity of natural language pose significant challenges in developing an interpreter that can accurately understand the programming logic and execute instructions written in natural language. Fortunately, recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in interpreting complex natural language.
Inspired by this, we develop a novel system for Code Representation and Execution (CoRE), which employs LLM as interpreter to interpret and execute natural language instructions. The proposed system unifies natural language programming, pseudo-code programming, and flow programming under the same representation for constructing language agents, while LLM serves as the interpreter to interpret and execute the agent programs. In this paper, we begin with defining the programming syntax that structures natural language instructions logically. During the execution, we incorporate external memory to minimize redundancy. Furthermore, we equip the designed interpreter with the capability to invoke external tools, compensating for the limitations of LLM in specialized domains or when accessing real-time information. This work is open-source at https://github.com/agiresearch/CoRE.

------------

`[2405.06700] LLM-Augmented Agent-Based Modelling for Social Simulations: Challenges and Opportunities <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06700>`__

::

    Wed, 8 May 2024 08:57:54 GMT
    Onder Gurcan

As large language models (LLMs) continue to make significant strides, their better integration into agent-based simulations offers a transformational potential for understanding complex social systems. However, such integration is not trivial and poses numerous challenges. Based on this observation, in this paper, we explore architectures and methods to systematically develop LLM-augmented social simulations and discuss potential research directions in this field. We conclude that integrating LLMs with agent-based simulations offers a powerful toolset for researchers and scientists, allowing for more nuanced, realistic, and comprehensive models of complex systems and human behaviours.

------------

`[2405.07960] AgentClinic: a multimodal agent benchmark to evaluate AI in simulated clinical environments <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07960>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 17:38:53 GMT
    Samuel Schmidgall, Rojin Ziaei, Carl Harris, Eduardo Reis, Jeffrey Jopling, Michael Moor

Diagnosing and managing a patient is a complex, sequential decision making process that requires physicians to obtain information -- such as which tests to perform -- and to act upon it. Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) promise to profoundly impact clinical care. However, current evaluation schemes overrely on static medical question-answering benchmarks, falling short on interactive decision-making that is required in real-life clinical work. Here, we present AgentClinic: a multimodal benchmark to evaluate LLMs in their ability to operate as agents in simulated clinical environments. In our benchmark, the doctor agent must uncover the patient's diagnosis through dialogue and active data collection. We present two open benchmarks: a multimodal image and dialogue environment, AgentClinic-NEJM, and a dialogue-only environment, AgentClinic-MedQA. We embed cognitive and implicit biases both in patient and doctor agents to emulate realistic interactions between biased agents. We find that introducing bias leads to large reductions in diagnostic accuracy of the doctor agents, as well as reduced compliance, confidence, and follow-up consultation willingness in patient agents. Evaluating a suite of state-of-the-art LLMs, we find that several models that excel in benchmarks like MedQA are performing poorly in AgentClinic-MedQA. We find that the LLM used in the patient agent is an important factor for performance in the AgentClinic benchmark. We show that both having limited interactions as well as too many interaction reduces diagnostic accuracy in doctor agents. The code and data for this work is publicly available at https://AgentClinic.github.io.

------------

`[2401.14589] Enhancing Diagnostic Accuracy through Multi-Agent Conversations: Using Large Language Models to Mitigate Cognitive Bias <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14589>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 05:28:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Rui Yang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 26 Jan 2024 01:35:50 UTC (2,937 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 05:28:23 UTC (2,871 KB)
    Yu He Ke, Rui Yang, Sui An Lie, Taylor Xin Yi Lim, Hairil Rizal Abdullah, Daniel Shu Wei Ting, Nan Liu

Background: Cognitive biases in clinical decision-making significantly contribute to errors in diagnosis and suboptimal patient outcomes. Addressing these biases presents a formidable challenge in the medical field.
Objective: This study explores the role of large language models (LLMs) in mitigating these biases through the utilization of a multi-agent framework. We simulate the clinical decision-making processes through multi-agent conversation and evaluate its efficacy in improving diagnostic accuracy.
Methods: A total of 16 published and unpublished case reports where cognitive biases have resulted in misdiagnoses were identified from the literature. In the multi-agent framework, we leveraged GPT-4 to facilitate interactions among four simulated agents to replicate clinical team dynamics. Each agent has a distinct role: 1) To make the final diagnosis after considering the discussions, 2) The devil's advocate and correct confirmation and anchoring bias, 3) The tutor and facilitator of the discussion to reduce premature closure bias, and 4) To record and summarize the findings. A total of 80 simulations were evaluated for the accuracy of initial diagnosis, top differential diagnosis and final two differential diagnoses.
Results: In a total of 80 responses evaluating both initial and final diagnoses, the initial diagnosis had an accuracy of 0% (0/80), but following multi-agent discussions, the accuracy for the top differential diagnosis increased to 71.3% (57/80), and for the final two differential diagnoses, to 80.0% (64/80).
Conclusions: The framework demonstrated an ability to re-evaluate and correct misconceptions, even in scenarios with misleading initial investigations. The LLM-driven multi-agent conversation framework shows promise in enhancing diagnostic accuracy in diagnostically challenging medical scenarios.

------------

`[2310.10108] On Generative Agents in Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10108>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 11:29:54 GMT
    Submission history From: An Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 06:41:16 UTC (12,388 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 11:29:54 UTC (14,497 KB)
    An Zhang, Yuxin Chen, Leheng Sheng, Xiang Wang, Tat-Seng Chua

Recommender systems are the cornerstone of today's information dissemination, yet a disconnect between offline metrics and online performance greatly hinders their development. Addressing this challenge, we envision a recommendation simulator, capitalizing on recent breakthroughs in human-level intelligence exhibited by Large Language Models (LLMs). We propose Agent4Rec, a user simulator in recommendation, leveraging LLM-empowered generative agents equipped with user profile, memory, and actions modules specifically tailored for the recommender system. In particular, these agents' profile modules are initialized using real-world datasets (e.g. MovieLens, Steam, Amazon-Book), capturing users' unique tastes and social traits; memory modules log both factual and emotional memories and are integrated with an emotion-driven reflection mechanism; action modules support a wide variety of behaviors, spanning both taste-driven and emotion-driven actions. Each agent interacts with personalized recommender models in a page-by-page manner, relying on a pre-implemented collaborative filtering-based recommendation algorithm. We delve into both the capabilities and limitations of Agent4Rec, aiming to explore an essential research question: ``To what extent can LLM-empowered generative agents faithfully simulate the behavior of real, autonomous humans in recommender systems?'' Extensive and multi-faceted evaluations of Agent4Rec highlight both the alignment and deviation between agents and user-personalized preferences. Beyond mere performance comparison, we explore insightful experiments, such as emulating the filter bubble effect and discovering the underlying causal relationships in recommendation tasks. Our codes are available at this https URL.

------------

----------
Other (98)
----------

`[2405.07474] Integrating Intent Understanding and Optimal Behavior Planning for Behavior Tree Generation from Human Instructions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07474>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 05:23:48 GMT
    Xinglin Chen, Yishuai Cai, Yunxin Mao, Minglong Li, Wenjing Yang, Weixia Xu, Ji Wang

Robots executing tasks following human instructions in domestic or industrial environments essentially require both adaptability and reliability. Behavior Tree (BT) emerges as an appropriate control architecture for these scenarios due to its modularity and reactivity. Existing BT generation methods, however, either do not involve interpreting natural language or cannot theoretically guarantee the BTs' success. This paper proposes a two-stage framework for BT generation, which first employs large language models (LLMs) to interpret goals from high-level instructions, then constructs an efficient goal-specific BT through the Optimal Behavior Tree Expansion Algorithm (OBTEA). We represent goals as well-formed formulas in first-order logic, effectively bridging intent understanding and optimal behavior planning. Experiments in the service robot validate the proficiency of LLMs in producing grammatically correct and accurately interpreted goals, demonstrate OBTEA's superiority over the baseline BT Expansion algorithm in various metrics, and finally confirm the practical deployability of our framework. The project website is https://dids-ei.github.io/Project/LLM-OBTEA/.

------------

`[2405.06650] Large Language Models as Planning Domain Generators <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06650>`__

::

    Tue, 2 Apr 2024 19:39:23 GMT
    James Oswald, Kavitha Srinivas, Harsha Kokel, Junkyu Lee, Michael Katz, Shirin Sohrabi

Developing domain models is one of the few remaining places that require manual human labor in AI planning. Thus, in order to make planning more accessible, it is desirable to automate the process of domain model generation.
To this end, we investigate if large language models (LLMs) can be used to generate planning domain models from simple textual descriptions. Specifically, we introduce a framework for automated evaluation of LLM-generated domains by comparing the sets of plans for domain instances. Finally, we perform an empirical analysis of 7 large language models, including coding and chat models across 9 different planning domains, and under three classes of natural language domain descriptions. Our results indicate that LLMs, particularly those with high parameter counts, exhibit a moderate level of proficiency in generating correct planning domains from natural language descriptions. Our code is available at https://github.com/IBM/NL2PDDL.

------------

`[2405.06652] Large Language Model (LLM) AI text generation detection based on transformer deep learning algorithm <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06652>`__

::

    Sat, 6 Apr 2024 06:22:45 GMT
    Yuhong Mo, Hao Qin, Yushan Dong, Ziyi Zhu, Zhenglin Li

In this paper, a tool for detecting LLM AI text generation is developed based on the Transformer model, aiming to improve the accuracy of AI text generation detection and provide reference for subsequent research. Firstly the text is Unicode normalised, converted to lowercase form, characters other than non-alphabetic characters and punctuation marks are removed by regular expressions, spaces are added around punctuation marks, first and last spaces are removed, consecutive ellipses are replaced with single spaces and the text is connected using the specified delimiter. Next remove non-alphabetic characters and extra whitespace characters, replace multiple consecutive whitespace characters with a single space and again convert to lowercase form.
The deep learning model combines layers such as LSTM, Transformer and CNN for text classification or sequence labelling tasks. The training and validation sets show that the model loss decreases from 0.127 to 0.005 and accuracy increases from 94.96 to 99.8, indicating that the model has good detection and classification ability for AI generated text. The test set confusion matrix and accuracy show that the model has 99% prediction accuracy for AI-generated text, with a precision of 0.99, a recall of 1, and an f1 score of 0.99, achieving a very high classification accuracy. Looking forward, it has the prospect of wide application in the field of AI text detection.

------------

`[2405.06674] Open-SQL Framework: Enhancing Text-to-SQL on Open-source Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06674>`__

::

    Sat, 4 May 2024 15:40:17 GMT
    Xiaojun Chen and Tianle Wang and Tianhao Qiu and Jianbin Qin and Min Yang

Despite the success of large language models (LLMs) in Text-to-SQL tasks, open-source LLMs encounter challenges in contextual understanding and response coherence. To tackle these issues, we present \ours, a systematic methodology tailored for Text-to-SQL with open-source LLMs. Our contributions include a comprehensive evaluation of open-source LLMs in Text-to-SQL tasks, the \openprompt strategy for effective question representation, and novel strategies for supervised fine-tuning. We explore the benefits of Chain-of-Thought in step-by-step inference and propose the \openexample method for enhanced few-shot learning. Additionally, we introduce token-efficient techniques, such as \textbf{Variable-length Open DB Schema}, \textbf{Target Column Truncation}, and \textbf{Example Column Truncation}, addressing challenges in large-scale databases. Our findings emphasize the need for further investigation into the impact of supervised fine-tuning on contextual learning capabilities. Remarkably, our method significantly improved Llama2-7B from 2.54\% to 41.04\% and Code Llama-7B from 14.54\% to 48.24\% on the BIRD-Dev dataset. Notably, the performance of Code Llama-7B surpassed GPT-4 (46.35\%) on the BIRD-Dev dataset.

------------

`[2405.06676] EDA Corpus: A Large Language Model Dataset for Enhanced Interaction with OpenROAD <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06676>`__

::

    Sat, 4 May 2024 21:29:37 GMT
    Bing-Yue Wu, Utsav Sharma, Sai Rahul Dhanvi Kankipati, Ajay Yadav, Bintu Kappil George, Sai Ritish Guntupalli, Austin Rovinski, and Vidya A. Chhabria

Large language models (LLMs) serve as powerful tools for design, providing capabilities for both task automation and design assistance. Recent advancements have shown tremendous potential for facilitating LLM integration into the chip design process; however, many of these works rely on data that are not publicly available and/or not permissively licensed for use in LLM training and distribution. In this paper, we present a solution aimed at bridging this gap by introducing an open-source dataset tailored for OpenROAD, a widely adopted open-source EDA toolchain. The dataset features over 1000 data points and is structured in two formats: (i) a pairwise set comprised of question prompts with prose answers, and (ii) a pairwise set comprised of code prompts and their corresponding OpenROAD scripts. By providing this dataset, we aim to facilitate LLM-focused research within the EDA domain. The dataset is available at https://github.com/OpenROAD-Assistant/EDA-Corpus.

------------

`[2405.06686] Word2World: Generating Stories and Worlds through Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06686>`__

::

    Mon, 6 May 2024 14:21:52 GMT
    Muhammad U. Nasir, Steven James and Julian Togelius

Large Language Models (LLMs) have proven their worth across a diverse spectrum of disciplines. LLMs have shown great potential in Procedural Content Generation (PCG) as well, but directly generating a level through a pre-trained LLM is still challenging. This work introduces Word2World, a system that enables LLMs to procedurally design playable games through stories, without any task-specific fine-tuning. Word2World leverages the abilities of LLMs to create diverse content and extract information. Combining these abilities, LLMs can create a story for the game, design narrative, and place tiles in appropriate places to create coherent worlds and playable games. We test Word2World with different LLMs and perform a thorough ablation study to validate each step. We open-source the code at https://github.com/umair-nasir14/Word2World.

------------

`[2405.06687] Hire Me or Not? Examining Language Model's Behavior with Occupation Attributes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06687>`__

::

    Mon, 6 May 2024 18:09:32 GMT
    Damin Zhang, Yi Zhang, Geetanjali Bihani, Julia Rayz

With the impressive performance in various downstream tasks, large language models (LLMs) have been widely integrated into production pipelines, like recruitment and recommendation systems. A known issue of models trained on natural language data is the presence of human biases, which can impact the fairness of the system. This paper investigates LLMs' behavior with respect to gender stereotypes, in the context of occupation decision making. Our framework is designed to investigate and quantify the presence of gender stereotypes in LLMs' behavior via multi-round question answering. Inspired by prior works, we construct a dataset by leveraging a standard occupation classification knowledge base released by authoritative agencies. We tested three LLMs (RoBERTa-large, GPT-3.5-turbo, and Llama2-70b-chat) and found that all models exhibit gender stereotypes analogous to human biases, but with different preferences. The distinct preferences of GPT-3.5-turbo and Llama2-70b-chat may imply the current alignment methods are insufficient for debiasing and could introduce new biases contradicting the traditional gender stereotypes.

------------

`[2405.06694] SUTRA: Scalable Multilingual Language Model Architecture <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06694>`__

::

    Tue, 7 May 2024 20:11:44 GMT
    Abhijit Bendale and Michael Sapienza and Steven Ripplinger and Simon Gibbs and Jaewon Lee and Pranav Mistry

In this paper, we introduce SUTRA, multilingual Large Language Model architecture capable of understanding, reasoning, and generating text in over 50 languages. SUTRA's design uniquely decouples core conceptual understanding from language-specific processing, which facilitates scalable and efficient multilingual alignment and learning. Employing a Mixture of Experts framework both in language and concept processing, SUTRA demonstrates both computational efficiency and responsiveness. Through extensive evaluations, SUTRA is demonstrated to surpass existing models like GPT-3.5, Llama2 by 20-30% on leading Massive Multitask Language Understanding (MMLU) benchmarks for multilingual tasks. SUTRA models are also online LLMs that can use knowledge from the internet to provide hallucination-free, factual and up-to-date responses while retaining their multilingual capabilities. Furthermore, we explore the broader implications of its architecture for the future of multilingual AI, highlighting its potential to democratize access to AI technology globally and to improve the equity and utility of AI in regions with predominantly non-English languages. Our findings suggest that SUTRA not only fills pivotal gaps in multilingual model capabilities but also establishes a new benchmark for operational efficiency and scalability in AI applications.

------------

`[2405.06695] Utilizing Large Language Models to Generate Synthetic Data to Increase the Performance of BERT-Based Neural Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06695>`__

::

    Wed, 8 May 2024 03:18:12 GMT
    Chancellor R. Woolsey, Prakash Bisht, Joshua Rothman, Gondy Leroy

An important issue impacting healthcare is a lack of available experts.
Machine learning (ML) models could resolve this by aiding in diagnosing patients. However, creating datasets large enough to train these models is expensive. We evaluated large language models (LLMs) for data creation. Using Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), we prompted ChatGPT and GPT-Premium to generate 4,200 synthetic observations to augment existing medical data. Our goal is to label behaviors corresponding to autism criteria and improve model accuracy with synthetic training data. We used a BERT classifier pre-trained on biomedical literature to assess differences in performance between models. A random sample (N=140) from the LLM-generated data was evaluated by a clinician and found to contain 83% correct example-label pairs. Augmenting data increased recall by 13% but decreased precision by 16%, correlating with higher quality and lower accuracy across pairs. Future work will analyze how different synthetic data traits affect ML outcomes.

------------

`[2405.06697] Automated Conversion of Static to Dynamic Scheduler via Natural Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06697>`__

::

    Wed, 8 May 2024 04:07:38 GMT
    Paul Mingzheng Tang, Kenji Kah Hoe Leong, Nowshad Shaik, Hoong Chuin Lau

In this paper, we explore the potential application of Large Language Models (LLMs) that will automatically model constraints and generate code for dynamic scheduling problems given an existing static model. Static scheduling problems are modelled and coded by optimization experts. These models may be easily obsoleted as the underlying constraints may need to be fine-tuned in order to reflect changes in the scheduling rules. Furthermore, it may be necessary to turn a static model into a dynamic one in order to cope with disturbances in the environment. In this paper, we propose a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) based LLM model to automate the process of implementing constraints for Dynamic Scheduling (RAGDyS), without seeking help from an optimization modeling expert. Our framework aims to minimize technical complexities related to mathematical modelling and computational workload for end-users, thereby allowing end-users to quickly obtain a new schedule close to the original schedule with changes reflected by natural language constraint descriptions.

------------

`[2405.06699] ChatSOS: Vector Database Augmented Generative Question Answering Assistant in Safety Engineering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06699>`__

::

    Wed, 8 May 2024 07:21:26 GMT
    Haiyang Tang, Dongping Chen, Qingzhao Chu

With the rapid advancement of natural language processing technologies, generative artificial intelligence techniques, represented by large language models (LLMs), are gaining increasing prominence and demonstrating significant potential for applications in safety engineering. However, fundamental LLMs face constraints such as limited training data coverage and unreliable responses. This study develops a vector database from 117 explosion accident reports in China spanning 2013 to 2023, employing techniques such as corpus segmenting and vector embedding. By utilizing the vector database, which outperforms the relational database in information retrieval quality, we provide LLMs with richer, more relevant knowledge. Comparative analysis of LLMs demonstrates that ChatSOS significantly enhances reliability, accuracy, and comprehensiveness, improves adaptability and clarification of responses. These results illustrate the effectiveness of supplementing LLMs with an external database, highlighting their potential to handle professional queries in safety engineering and laying a foundation for broader applications.

------------

`[2405.06703] Interpretable Cross-Examination Technique (ICE-T): Using highly informative features to boost LLM performance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06703>`__

::

    Wed, 8 May 2024 19:20:34 GMT
    Goran Muric, Ben Delay, Steven Minton

In this paper, we introduce the Interpretable Cross-Examination Technique (ICE-T), a novel approach that leverages structured multi-prompt techniques with Large Language Models (LLMs) to improve classification performance over zero-shot and few-shot methods. In domains where interpretability is crucial, such as medicine and law, standard models often fall short due to their "black-box" nature. ICE-T addresses these limitations by using a series of generated prompts that allow an LLM to approach the problem from multiple directions. The responses from the LLM are then converted into numerical feature vectors and processed by a traditional classifier. This method not only maintains high interpretability but also allows for smaller, less capable models to achieve or exceed the performance of larger, more advanced models under zero-shot conditions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of ICE-T across a diverse set of data sources, including medical records and legal documents, consistently surpassing the zero-shot baseline in terms of classification metrics such as F1 scores. Our results indicate that ICE-T can be used for improving both the performance and transparency of AI applications in complex decision-making environments.

------------

`[2405.06712] Digital Diagnostics: The Potential Of Large Language Models In Recognizing Symptoms Of Common Illnesses <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06712>`__

::

    Thu, 9 May 2024 15:12:24 GMT
    Gaurav Kumar Gupta, Aditi Singh, Sijo Valayakkad Manikandan, Abul Ehtesham

The recent swift development of LLMs like GPT-4, Gemini, and GPT-3.5 offers a transformative opportunity in medicine and healthcare, especially in digital diagnostics. This study evaluates each model diagnostic abilities by interpreting a user symptoms and determining diagnoses that fit well with common illnesses, and it demonstrates how each of these models could significantly increase diagnostic accuracy and efficiency. Through a series of diagnostic prompts based on symptoms from medical databases, GPT-4 demonstrates higher diagnostic accuracy from its deep and complete history of training on medical data. Meanwhile, Gemini performs with high precision as a critical tool in disease triage, demonstrating its potential to be a reliable model when physicians are trying to make high-risk diagnoses. GPT-3.5, though slightly less advanced, is a good tool for medical diagnostics. This study highlights the need to study LLMs for healthcare and clinical practices with more care and attention, ensuring that any system utilizing LLMs promotes patient privacy and complies with health information privacy laws such as HIPAA compliance, as well as the social consequences that affect the varied individuals in complex healthcare contexts. This study marks the start of a larger future effort to study the various ways in which assigning ethical concerns to LLMs task of learning from human biases could unearth new ways to apply AI in complex medical settings.

------------

`[2405.06713] Unveiling the Competitive Dynamics: A Comparative Evaluation of American and Chinese LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06713>`__

::

    Thu, 9 May 2024 15:39:19 GMT
    Zhenhui Jiang, Jiaxin Li, Yang Liu

The strategic significance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in economic expansion, innovation, societal development, and national security has been increasingly recognized since the advent of ChatGPT. This study provides a comprehensive comparative evaluation of American and Chinese LLMs in both English and Chinese contexts. We proposed a comprehensive evaluation framework that encompasses natural language proficiency, disciplinary expertise, and safety and responsibility, and systematically assessed 16 prominent models from the US and China under various operational tasks and scenarios. Our key findings show that GPT 4-Turbo is at the forefront in English contexts, whereas Ernie-Bot 4 stands out in Chinese contexts. The study also highlights disparities in LLM performance across languages and tasks, stressing the necessity for linguistically and culturally nuanced model development. The complementary strengths of American and Chinese LLMs point to the value of Sino-US collaboration in advancing LLM technology. The research presents the current LLM competition landscape and offers valuable insights for policymakers and businesses regarding strategic LLM investments and development. Future work will expand on this framework to include emerging LLM multimodal capabilities and business application assessments.

------------

`[2405.06714] Towards a path dependent account of category fluency <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06714>`__

::

    Thu, 9 May 2024 16:36:56 GMT
    David Heineman, Reba Koenen, Sashank Varma

Category fluency is a widely studied cognitive phenomenon, yet two conflicting accounts have been proposed as the underlying retrieval mechanism -- an optimal foraging process deliberately searching through memory (Hills et al., 2012) and a random walk sampling from a semantic network (Abbott et al., 2015). Evidence for both accounts has centered around predicting human patch switches, where both existing models of category fluency produce paradoxically identical results. We begin by peeling back the assumptions made by existing models, namely that each named example only depends on the previous example, by (i) adding an additional bias to model the category transition probability directly and (ii) relying on a large language model to predict based on the entire existing sequence. Then, we present evidence towards resolving the disagreement between each account of foraging by reformulating models as sequence generators. To evaluate, we compare generated category fluency runs to a bank of human-written sequences by proposing a metric based on n-gram overlap. We find category switch predictors do not necessarily produce human-like sequences, in fact the additional biases used by the Hills et al.
(2012) model are required to improve generation quality, which are later improved by our category modification. Even generating exclusively with an LLM requires an additional global cue to trigger the patch switching behavior during production. Further tests on only the search process on top of the semantic network highlight the importance of deterministic search to replicate human behavior.

------------

`[2405.06715] Enhancing Creativity in Large Language Models through Associative Thinking Strategies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06715>`__

::

    Thu, 9 May 2024 16:42:29 GMT
    Pronita Mehrotra, Aishni Parab, Sumit Gulwani

This paper explores the enhancement of creativity in Large Language Models (LLMs) like vGPT-4 through associative thinking, a cognitive process where creative ideas emerge from linking seemingly unrelated concepts. Associative thinking strategies have been found to effectively help humans boost creativity. However, whether the same strategies can help LLMs become more creative remains under-explored. In this work, we investigate whether prompting LLMs to connect disparate concepts can augment their creative outputs. Focusing on three domains -- Product Design, Storytelling, and Marketing -- we introduce creativity tasks designed to assess vGPT-4's ability to generate original and useful content. By challenging the models to form novel associations, we evaluate the potential of associative thinking to enhance the creative capabilities of LLMs. Our findings show that leveraging associative thinking techniques can significantly improve the originality of vGPT-4's responses.

------------

`[2405.06719] Enhancing Traffic Prediction with Textual Data Using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06719>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 03:14:26 GMT
    Xiannan Huang

Traffic prediction is pivotal for rational transportation supply scheduling and allocation. Existing researches into short-term traffic prediction, however, face challenges in adequately addressing exceptional circumstances and integrating non-numerical contextual information like weather into models.
While, Large language models offer a promising solution due to their inherent world knowledge. However, directly using them for traffic prediction presents drawbacks such as high cost, lack of determinism, and limited mathematical capability. To mitigate these issues, this study proposes a novel approach.
Instead of directly employing large models for prediction, it utilizes them to process textual information and obtain embeddings. These embeddings are then combined with historical traffic data and inputted into traditional spatiotemporal forecasting models. The study investigates two types of special scenarios: regional-level and node-level. For regional-level scenarios, textual information is represented as a node connected to the entire network. For node-level scenarios, embeddings from the large model represent additional nodes connected only to corresponding nodes. This approach shows a significant improvement in prediction accuracy according to our experiment of New York Bike dataset.

------------

`[2405.06800] LLM-Generated Black-box Explanations Can Be Adversarially Helpful <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06800>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 20:23:46 GMT
    Rohan Ajwani, Shashidhar Reddy Javaji, Frank Rudzicz, Zining Zhu

Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming vital tools that help us solve and understand complex problems by acting as digital assistants. LLMs can generate convincing explanations, even when only given the inputs and outputs of these problems, i.e., in a ``black-box'' approach. However, our research uncovers a hidden risk tied to this approach, which we call *adversarial helpfulness*.
This happens when an LLM's explanations make a wrong answer look right, potentially leading people to trust incorrect solutions. In this paper, we show that this issue affects not just humans, but also LLM evaluators. Digging deeper, we identify and examine key persuasive strategies employed by LLMs. Our findings reveal that these models employ strategies such as reframing the questions, expressing an elevated level of confidence, and cherry-picking evidence to paint misleading answers in a credible light. To examine if LLMs are able to navigate complex-structured knowledge when generating adversarially helpful explanations, we create a special task based on navigating through graphs. Some LLMs are not able to find alternative paths along simple graphs, indicating that their misleading explanations aren't produced by only logical deductions using complex knowledge. These findings shed light on the limitations of black-box explanation setting. We provide some advice on how to use LLMs as explainers safely.

------------

`[2405.06807] Tackling Execution-Based Evaluation for NL2Bash <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06807>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 20:45:34 GMT
    Ngoc Phuoc An Vo, Brent Paulovicks, Vadim Sheinin

Given recent advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs), the task of translating from natural language prompts to different programming languages (code generation) attracts immense attention for wide application in different domains. Specially code generation for Bash (NL2Bash) is widely used to generate Bash scripts for automating different tasks, such as performance monitoring, compilation, system administration, system diagnostics, etc.
Besides code generation, validating synthetic code is critical before using them for any application. Different methods for code validation are proposed, both direct (execution evaluation) and indirect validations (i.e. exact/partial match, BLEU score). Among these, Execution-based Evaluation (EE) can validate the predicted code by comparing the execution output of model prediction and expected output in system. However, designing and implementing such an execution-based evaluation system for NL2Bash is not a trivial task. In this paper, we present a machinery for execution-based evaluation for NL2Bash. We create a set of 50 prompts to evaluate some popular LLMs for NL2Bash. We also analyze several advantages and challenges of EE such as syntactically different yet semantically equivalent Bash scripts generated by different LLMs, or syntactically correct but semantically incorrect Bash scripts, and how we capture and process them correctly.

------------

`[2405.06890] TacoERE: Cluster-aware Compression for Event Relation Extraction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06890>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 03:06:08 GMT
    Yong Guan, Xiaozhi Wang, Lei Hou, Juanzi Li, Jeff Pan, Jiaoyan Chen, Freddy Lecue

Event relation extraction (ERE) is a critical and fundamental challenge for natural language processing. Existing work mainly focuses on directly modeling the entire document, which cannot effectively handle long-range dependencies and information redundancy. To address these issues, we propose a cluster-aware compression method for improving event relation extraction (TacoERE), which explores a compression-then-extraction paradigm. Specifically, we first introduce document clustering for modeling event dependencies. It splits the document into intra- and inter-clusters, where intra-clusters aim to enhance the relations within the same cluster, while inter-clusters attempt to model the related events at arbitrary distances. Secondly, we utilize cluster summarization to simplify and highlight important text content of clusters for mitigating information redundancy and event distance. We have conducted extensive experiments on both pre-trained language models, such as RoBERTa, and large language models, such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, on three ERE datasets, i.e., MAVEN-ERE, EventStoryLine and HiEve. Experimental results demonstrate that TacoERE is an effective method for ERE.

------------

`[2405.06906] Finding structure in logographic writing with library learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06906>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 04:23:53 GMT
    Guangyuan Jiang, Matthias Hofer, Jiayuan Mao, Lionel Wong, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Roger P. Levy

One hallmark of human language is its combinatoriality -- reusing a relatively small inventory of building blocks to create a far larger inventory of increasingly complex structures. In this paper, we explore the idea that combinatoriality in language reflects a human inductive bias toward representational efficiency in symbol systems. We develop a computational framework for discovering structure in a writing system. Built on top of state-of-the-art library learning and program synthesis techniques, our computational framework discovers known linguistic structures in the Chinese writing system and reveals how the system evolves towards simplification under pressures for representational efficiency. We demonstrate how a library learning approach, utilizing learned abstractions and compression, may help reveal the fundamental computational principles that underlie the creation of combinatorial structures in human cognition, and offer broader insights into the evolution of efficient communication systems.

------------

`[2405.06996] Quite Good, but Not Enough: Nationality Bias in Large Language Models -- A Case Study of ChatGPT <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06996>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 12:11:52 GMT
    Shucheng Zhu, Weikang Wang, Ying Liu

While nationality is a pivotal demographic element that enhances the performance of language models, it has received far less scrutiny regarding inherent biases. This study investigates nationality bias in ChatGPT (GPT-3.5), a large language model (LLM) designed for text generation. The research covers 195 countries, 4 temperature settings, and 3 distinct prompt types, generating 4,680 discourses about nationality descriptions in Chinese and English.
Automated metrics were used to analyze the nationality bias, and expert annotators alongside ChatGPT itself evaluated the perceived bias. The results show that ChatGPT's generated discourses are predominantly positive, especially compared to its predecessor, GPT-2. However, when prompted with negative inclinations, it occasionally produces negative content. Despite ChatGPT considering its generated text as neutral, it shows consistent self-awareness about nationality bias when subjected to the same pair-wise comparison annotation framework used by human annotators. In conclusion, while ChatGPT's generated texts seem friendly and positive, they reflect the inherent nationality biases in the real world. This bias may vary across different language versions of ChatGPT, indicating diverse cultural perspectives. The study highlights the subtle and pervasive nature of biases within LLMs, emphasizing the need for further scrutiny.

------------

`[2405.07001] Evaluating Task-based Effectiveness of MLLMs on Charts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07001>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 12:33:46 GMT
    Yifan Wu, Lutao Yan, Yuyu Luo, Yunhai Wang, Nan Tang

In this paper, we explore a forward-thinking question: Is GPT-4V effective at low-level data analysis tasks on charts? To this end, we first curate a large-scale dataset, named ChartInsights, consisting of 89,388 quartets (chart, task, question, answer) and covering 10 widely-used low-level data analysis tasks on 7 chart types. Firstly, we conduct systematic evaluations to understand the capabilities and limitations of 18 advanced MLLMs, which include 12 open-source models and 6 closed-source models. Starting with a standard textual prompt approach, the average accuracy rate across the 18 MLLMs is 36.17%. Among all the models, GPT-4V achieves the highest accuracy, reaching 56.13%. To understand the limitations of multimodal large models in low-level data analysis tasks, we have designed various experiments to conduct an in-depth test of capabilities of GPT-4V. We further investigate how visual modifications to charts, such as altering visual elements (e.g. changing color schemes) and introducing perturbations (e.g. adding image noise), affect performance of GPT-4V. Secondly, we present 12 experimental findings. These findings suggest potential of GPT-4V to revolutionize interaction with charts and uncover the gap between human analytic needs and capabilities of GPT-4V.
Thirdly, we propose a novel textual prompt strategy, named Chain-of-Charts, tailored for low-level analysis tasks, which boosts model performance by 24.36%, resulting in an accuracy of 80.49%. Furthermore, by incorporating a visual prompt strategy that directs attention of GPT-4V to question-relevant visual elements, we further improve accuracy to 83.83%. Our study not only sheds light on the capabilities and limitations of GPT-4V in low-level data analysis tasks but also offers valuable insights for future research.

------------

`[2405.07035] A Turkish Educational Crossword Puzzle <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07035>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 15:18:56 GMT
    Kamyar Zeinalipour, Yusuf G\"okberk Kepti\u{g}, Marco Maggini, Leonardo Rigutini and Marco Gori

This paper introduces the first Turkish crossword puzzle generator designed to leverage the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) for educational purposes. In this work, we introduced two specially created datasets: one with over 180,000 unique answer-clue pairs for generating relevant clues from the given answer, and another with over 35,000 samples containing text, answer, category, and clue data, aimed at producing clues for specific texts and keywords within certain categories. Beyond entertainment, this generator emerges as an interactive educational tool that enhances memory, vocabulary, and problem-solving skills. It's a notable step in AI-enhanced education, merging game-like engagement with learning for Turkish and setting new standards for interactive, intelligent learning tools in Turkish.

------------

`[2405.07076] Integrating Emotional and Linguistic Models for Ethical Compliance in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07076>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 19:26:00 GMT
    Edward Y. Chang

This research develops advanced methodologies for Large Language Models (LLMs) to better manage linguistic behaviors related to emotions and ethics. We introduce DIKE, an adversarial framework that enhances the LLMs' ability to internalize and reflect global human values, adapting to varied cultural contexts to promote transparency and trust among users. The methodology involves detailed modeling of emotions, classification of linguistic behaviors, and implementation of ethical guardrails. Our innovative approaches include mapping emotions and behaviors using self-supervised learning techniques, refining these guardrails through adversarial reviews, and systematically adjusting outputs to ensure ethical alignment. This framework establishes a robust foundation for AI systems to operate with ethical integrity and cultural sensitivity, paving the way for more responsible and context-aware AI interactions.

------------

`[2405.07101] Advanced Natural-based interaction for the ITAlian language: LLaMAntino-3-ANITA <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07101>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 22:02:55 GMT
    Marco Polignano, Pierpaolo Basile and Giovanni Semeraro

In the pursuit of advancing natural language processing for the Italian language, we introduce a state-of-the-art Large Language Model (LLM) based on the novel Meta LLaMA-3 model: LLaMAntino-3-ANITA-8B-Inst-DPO-ITA. We fine-tuned the original 8B parameters instruction tuned model using the Supervised Fine-tuning (SFT) technique on the English and Italian language datasets in order to improve the original performance. Consequently, a Dynamic Preference Optimization (DPO) process has been used to align preferences, avoid dangerous and inappropriate answers, and limit biases and prejudices. Our model leverages the efficiency of QLoRA to fine-tune the model on a smaller portion of the original model weights and then adapt the model specifically for the Italian linguistic structure, achieving significant improvements in both performance and computational efficiency. Concurrently, DPO is employed to refine the model's output, ensuring that generated content aligns with quality answers.
The synergy between SFT, QLoRA's parameter efficiency and DPO's user-centric optimization results in a robust LLM that excels in a variety of tasks, including but not limited to text completion, zero-shot classification, and contextual understanding. The model has been extensively evaluated over standard benchmarks for the Italian and English languages, showing outstanding results. The model is freely available over the HuggingFace hub and, examples of use can be found in our GitHub repository.
https://huggingface.co/swap-uniba/LLaMAntino-3-ANITA-8B-Inst-DPO-ITA

------------

`[2405.07111] Designing and Evaluating Dialogue LLMs for Co-Creative Improvised Theatre <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07111>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 23:19:42 GMT
    Boyd Branch, Piotr Mirowski, Kory Mathewson, Sophia Ppali, Alexandra Covaci

Social robotics researchers are increasingly interested in multi-party trained conversational agents. With a growing demand for real-world evaluations, our study presents Large Language Models (LLMs) deployed in a month-long live show at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. This case study investigates human improvisers co-creating with conversational agents in a professional theatre setting. We explore the technical capabilities and constraints of on-the-spot multi-party dialogue, providing comprehensive insights from both audience and performer experiences with AI on stage. Our human-in-the-loop methodology underlines the challenges of these LLMs in generating context-relevant responses, stressing the user interface's crucial role. Audience feedback indicates an evolving interest for AI-driven live entertainment, direct human-AI interaction, and a diverse range of expectations about AI's conversational competence and utility as a creativity support tool.
Human performers express immense enthusiasm, varied satisfaction, and the evolving public opinion highlights mixed emotions about AI's role in arts.

------------

`[2405.07195] InsightNet: Structured Insight Mining from Customer Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07195>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 07:40:12 GMT
    Sandeep Sricharan Mukku, Manan Soni, Jitenkumar Rana, Chetan Aggarwal, Promod Yenigalla, Rashmi Patange and Shyam Mohan

We propose InsightNet, a novel approach for the automated extraction of structured insights from customer reviews. Our end-to-end machine learning framework is designed to overcome the limitations of current solutions, including the absence of structure for identified topics, non-standard aspect names, and lack of abundant training data. The proposed solution builds a semi-supervised multi-level taxonomy from raw reviews, a semantic similarity heuristic approach to generate labelled data and employs a multi-task insight extraction architecture by fine-tuning an LLM. InsightNet identifies granular actionable topics with customer sentiments and verbatim for each topic.
Evaluations on real-world customer review data show that InsightNet performs better than existing solutions in terms of structure, hierarchy and completeness. We empirically demonstrate that InsightNet outperforms the current state-of-the-art methods in multi-label topic classification, achieving an F1 score of 0.85, which is an improvement of 11% F1-score over the previous best results. Additionally, InsightNet generalises well for unseen aspects and suggests new topics to be added to the taxonomy.

------------

`[2405.07248] Limited Ability of LLMs to Simulate Human Psychological Behaviours: a Psychometric Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07248>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 10:52:15 GMT
    Nikolay B Petrov, Gregory Serapio-Garc\'ia, Jason Rentfrow

The humanlike responses of large language models (LLMs) have prompted social scientists to investigate whether LLMs can be used to simulate human participants in experiments, opinion polls and surveys. Of central interest in this line of research has been mapping out the psychological profiles of LLMs by prompting them to respond to standardized questionnaires. The conflicting findings of this research are unsurprising given that mapping out underlying, or latent, traits from LLMs' text responses to questionnaires is no easy task.
To address this, we use psychometrics, the science of psychological measurement. In this study, we prompt OpenAI's flagship models, GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, to assume different personas and respond to a range of standardized measures of personality constructs. We used two kinds of persona descriptions: either generic (four or five random person descriptions) or specific (mostly demographics of actual humans from a large-scale human dataset). We found that the responses from GPT-4, but not GPT-3.5, using generic persona descriptions show promising, albeit not perfect, psychometric properties, similar to human norms, but the data from both LLMs when using specific demographic profiles, show poor psychometrics properties. We conclude that, currently, when LLMs are asked to simulate silicon personas, their responses are poor signals of potentially underlying latent traits. Thus, our work casts doubt on LLMs' ability to simulate individual-level human behaviour across multiple-choice question answering tasks.

------------

`[2405.07278] Human-interpretable clustering of short-text using large language models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07278>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 12:55:40 GMT
    Justin K. Miller, Tristram J. Alexander

Large language models have seen extraordinary growth in popularity due to their human-like content generation capabilities. We show that these models can also be used to successfully cluster human-generated content, with success defined through the measures of distinctiveness and interpretability. This success is validated by both human reviewers and ChatGPT, providing an automated means to close the 'validation gap' that has challenged short-text clustering. Comparing the machine and human approaches we identify the biases inherent in each, and question the reliance on human-coding as the 'gold standard'. We apply our methodology to Twitter bios and find characteristic ways humans describe themselves, agreeing well with prior specialist work, but with interesting differences characteristic of the medium used to express identity.

------------

`[2405.07282] Branching Narratives: Character Decision Points Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07282>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 13:36:07 GMT
    Alexey Tikhonov

This paper presents the Character Decision Points Detection (CHADPOD) task, a task of identification of points within narratives where characters make decisions that may significantly influence the story's direction. We propose a novel dataset based on CYOA-like games graphs to be used as a benchmark for such a task. We provide a comparative analysis of different models' performance on this task, including a couple of LLMs and several MLMs as baselines, achieving up to 89% accuracy. This underscores the complexity of narrative analysis, showing the challenges associated with understanding character-driven story dynamics. Additionally, we show how such a model can be applied to the existing text to produce linear segments divided by potential branching points, demonstrating the practical application of our findings in narrative analysis.

------------

`[2405.07320] L(u)PIN: LLM-based Political Ideology Nowcasting <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07320>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 16:14:07 GMT
    Ken Kato, Annabelle Purnomo, Christopher Cochrane, Raeid Saqur

The quantitative analysis of political ideological positions is a difficult task. In the past, various literature focused on parliamentary voting data of politicians, party manifestos and parliamentary speech to estimate political disagreement and polarization in various political systems. However previous methods of quantitative political analysis suffered from a common challenge which was the amount of data available for analysis. Also previous methods frequently focused on a more general analysis of politics such as overall polarization of the parliament or party-wide political ideological positions.
In this paper, we present a method to analyze ideological positions of individual parliamentary representatives by leveraging the latent knowledge of LLMs. The method allows us to evaluate the stance of politicians on an axis of our choice allowing us to flexibly measure the stance of politicians in regards to a topic/controversy of our choice. We achieve this by using a fine-tuned BERT classifier to extract the opinion-based sentences from the speeches of representatives and projecting the average BERT embeddings for each representative on a pair of reference seeds. These reference seeds are either manually chosen representatives known to have opposing views on a particular topic or they are generated sentences which where created using the GPT-4 model of OpenAI. We created the sentences by prompting the GPT-4 model to generate a speech that would come from a politician defending a particular position.

------------

`[2405.07490] Strategic Data Ordering: Enhancing Large Language Model Performance through Curriculum Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07490>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 06:09:10 GMT
    Jisu Kim, Juhwan Lee

The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has improved text understanding and generation but poses challenges in computational resources.
This study proposes a curriculum learning-inspired, data-centric training strategy that begins with simpler tasks and progresses to more complex ones, using criteria such as prompt length, attention scores, and loss values to structure the training data. Experiments with Mistral-7B (Jiang et al., 2023) and Gemma-7B (Team et al., 2024) models demonstrate that curriculum learning slightly improves performance compared to traditional random data shuffling.
Notably, we observed that sorting data based on our proposed attention criteria generally led to better performance. This approach offers a sustainable method to enhance LLM performance without increasing model size or dataset volume, addressing scalability challenges in LLM training.

------------

`[2405.07495] MacBehaviour: An R package for behavioural experimentation on large language models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07495>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 06:31:48 GMT
    Xufeng Duan, Shixuan Li, Zhenguang G. Cai1

There has been increasing interest in investigating the behaviours of large language models (LLMs) and LLM-powered chatbots by treating an LLM as a participant in a psychological experiment. We therefore developed an R package called "MacBehaviour" that aims to interact with more than 60 language models in one package (e.g., OpenAI's GPT family, the Claude family, Gemini, Llama family, and open-source models) and streamline the experimental process of LLMs behaviour experiments. The package offers a comprehensive set of functions designed for LLM experiments, covering experiment design, stimuli presentation, model behaviour manipulation, logging response and token probability. To demonstrate the utility and effectiveness of "MacBehaviour," we conducted three validation experiments on three LLMs (GPT-3.5, Llama-2 7B, and Vicuna-1.5 13B) to replicate sound-gender association in LLMs. The results consistently showed that they exhibit human-like tendencies to infer gender from novel personal names based on their phonology, as previously demonstrated (Cai et al., 2023).
In summary, "MacBehaviour" is an R package for machine behaviour studies which offers a user-friendly interface and comprehensive features to simplify and standardize the experimental process.

------------

`[2405.07623] COBias and Debias: Minimizing Language Model Pairwise Accuracy Bias via Nonlinear Integer Programming <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07623>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 10:30:33 GMT
    Ruixi Lin, Yang You

For language model classification, would you prefer having only one workable class or having every class working? The latter makes more practical uses.
Especially for large language models (LLMs), the fact that they achieve a fair overall accuracy by in-context learning (ICL) obscures a large difference in individual class accuracies. In this work, we uncover and tackle language models' imbalance in per-class prediction accuracy by reconceptualizing it as the Contextual Oddity Bias (COBias), and we are the first to engage nonlinear integer programming (NIP) to debias it. Briefly, COBias refers to the difference in accuracy by a class A compared to its ''odd'' class, which holds the majority wrong predictions of class A. With the COBias metric, we reveal that LLMs of varied scales and families exhibit large per-class accuracy differences. Then we propose Debiasing as Nonlinear Integer Programming (DNIP) to correct ICL per-class probabilities for lower bias and higher overall accuracy. Our optimization objective is directly based on the evaluation scores by COBias and accuracy metrics, solved by simulated annealing. Evaluations on three LLMs across seven NLP classification tasks show that DNIP simultaneously achieves significant COBias reduction ($-27\%$) and accuracy improvement ($+12\%$) over the conventional ICL approach, suggesting that modeling pairwise class accuracy differences is a direction in pushing forward more accurate, more reliable LLM predictions.

------------

`[2405.07703] OpenLLM-Ro -- Technical Report on Open-source Romanian LLMs trained starting from Llama 2 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07703>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 12:46:11 GMT
    Mihai Masala, Denis C. Ilie-Ablachim, Dragos Corlatescu, Miruna Zavelca, Marius Leordeanu, Horia Velicu, Marius Popescu, Mihai Dascalu, Traian Rebedea

In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved almost human-like performance on various tasks. While some LLMs have been trained on multilingual data, most of the training data is in English. Hence, their performance in English greatly exceeds their performance in other languages. This document presents our approach to training and evaluating the first foundational and chat LLM specialized for Romanian.

------------

`[2405.07726] Quantifying and Optimizing Global Faithfulness in Persona-driven Role-playing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07726>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 13:21:35 GMT
    Letian Peng, Jingbo Shang

Persona-driven role-playing (PRP) aims to build AI characters that can respond to user queries by faithfully sticking with all persona statements.
Unfortunately, existing faithfulness criteria for PRP are limited to coarse-grained LLM-based scoring without a clear definition or formulation.
This paper presents a pioneering exploration to quantify PRP faithfulness as a fine-grained and explainable criterion, which also serves as a reliable reference for optimization. Our criterion first discriminates persona statements into active and passive constraints by identifying the query-statement relevance. Then, we incorporate all constraints following the principle that the AI character's response should be (a) entailed by active (relevant) constraints and (b) not contradicted by passive (irrelevant) constraints. We translate this principle mathematically into a novel Active-Passive-Constraint (APC) score, a constraint-wise sum of natural language inference (NLI) scores weighted by relevance scores. In practice, we build the APC scoring system by symbolically distilling small discriminators from GPT-4 for efficiency. We validate the quality of the APC score against human evaluation based on example personas with tens of statements, and the results show a high correlation. We further leverage it as a reward system in direct preference optimization (DPO) for better AI characters. Our experiments offer a fine-grained and explainable comparison between existing PRP techniques, revealing their advantages and limitations. We further find APC-based DPO to be one of the most competitive techniques for sticking with all constraints and can be well incorporated with other techniques. We then extend the scale of the experiments to real persons with hundreds of statements and reach a consistent conclusion.

------------

`[2405.07745] LlamaTurk: Adapting Open-Source Generative Large Language Models for Low-Resource Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07745>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 13:41:59 GMT
    Cagri Toraman

Despite advancements in English-dominant generative large language models, further development is needed for low-resource languages to enhance global accessibility. The primary methods for representing these languages are monolingual and multilingual pretraining. Monolingual pretraining is expensive due to hardware requirements, and multilingual models often have uneven performance across languages. This study explores an alternative solution by adapting large language models, primarily trained on English, to low-resource languages. We assess various strategies, including continual training, instruction fine-tuning, task-specific fine-tuning, and vocabulary extension.
The results show that continual training improves language comprehension, as reflected in perplexity scores, and task-specific tuning generally enhances performance of downstream tasks. However, extending the vocabulary shows no substantial benefits. Additionally, while larger models improve task performance with few-shot tuning, multilingual models perform worse than their monolingual counterparts when adapted.

------------

`[2405.07883] Zero-Shot Tokenizer Transfer <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07883>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 16:17:10 GMT
    Benjamin Minixhofer, Edoardo Maria Ponti, Ivan Vuli\'c

Language models (LMs) are bound to their tokenizer, which maps raw text to a sequence of vocabulary items (tokens). This restricts their flexibility: for example, LMs trained primarily on English may still perform well in other natural and programming languages, but have vastly decreased efficiency due to their English-centric tokenizer. To mitigate this, we should be able to swap the original LM tokenizer with an arbitrary one, on the fly, without degrading performance. Hence, in this work we define a new problem: Zero-Shot Tokenizer Transfer (ZeTT). The challenge at the core of ZeTT is finding embeddings for the tokens in the vocabulary of the new tokenizer. Since prior heuristics for initializing embeddings often perform at chance level in a ZeTT setting, we propose a new solution: we train a hypernetwork taking a tokenizer as input and predicting the corresponding embeddings. We empirically demonstrate that the hypernetwork generalizes to new tokenizers both with encoder (e.g., XLM-R) and decoder LLMs (e.g., Mistral-7B). Our method comes close to the original models' performance in cross-lingual and coding tasks while markedly reducing the length of the tokenized sequence. We also find that the remaining gap can be quickly closed by continued training on less than 1B tokens. Finally, we show that a ZeTT hypernetwork trained for a base (L)LM can also be applied to fine-tuned variants without extra training. Overall, our results make substantial strides toward detaching LMs from their tokenizer.

------------

`[2405.07932] PARDEN, Can You Repeat That? Defending against Jailbreaks via Repetition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07932>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 17:08:42 GMT
    Ziyang Zhang, Qizhen Zhang, Jakob Foerster

Large language models (LLMs) have shown success in many natural language processing tasks. Despite rigorous safety alignment processes, supposedly safety-aligned LLMs like Llama 2 and Claude 2 are still susceptible to jailbreaks, leading to security risks and abuse of the models. One option to mitigate such risks is to augment the LLM with a dedicated "safeguard", which checks the LLM's inputs or outputs for undesired behaviour. A promising approach is to use the LLM itself as the safeguard. Nonetheless, baseline methods, such as prompting the LLM to self-classify toxic content, demonstrate limited efficacy. We hypothesise that this is due to domain shift: the alignment training imparts a self-censoring behaviour to the model ("Sorry I can't do that"), while the self-classify approach shifts it to a classification format ("Is this prompt malicious"). In this work, we propose PARDEN, which avoids this domain shift by simply asking the model to repeat its own outputs.
PARDEN neither requires finetuning nor white box access to the model. We empirically verify the effectiveness of our method and show that PARDEN significantly outperforms existing jailbreak detection baselines for Llama-2 and Claude-2. Code and data are available at https://github.com/Ed-Zh/PARDEN.
We find that PARDEN is particularly powerful in the relevant regime of high True Positive Rate (TPR) and low False Positive Rate (FPR). For instance, for Llama2-7B, at TPR equal to 90%, PARDEN accomplishes a roughly 11x reduction in the FPR from 24.8% to 2.0% on the harmful behaviours dataset.

------------

`[2405.07061] LLMs and the Future of Chip Design: Unveiling Security Risks and Building Trust <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07061>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 17:27:41 GMT
    Zeng Wang, Lilas Alrahis, Likhitha Mankali, Johann Knechtel, Ozgur Sinanoglu

Chip design is about to be revolutionized by the integration of large language, multimodal, and circuit models (collectively LxMs). While exploring this exciting frontier with tremendous potential, the community must also carefully consider the related security risks and the need for building trust into using LxMs for chip design. First, we review the recent surge of using LxMs for chip design in general. We cover state-of-the-art works for the automation of hardware description language code generation and for scripting and guidance of essential but cumbersome tasks for electronic design automation tools, e.g., design-space exploration, tuning, or designer training. Second, we raise and provide initial answers to novel research questions on critical issues for security and trustworthiness of LxM-powered chip design from both the attack and defense perspectives.

------------

`[2405.07140] Edge Intelligence Optimization for Large Language Model Inference with Batching and Quantization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07140>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 02:38:58 GMT
    Xinyuan Zhang, Jiang Liu, Zehui Xiong, Yudong Huang, Gaochang Xie, Ran Zhang

Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) is taking the world by storm with its unparalleled content creation ability. Large Language Models (LLMs) are at the forefront of this movement. However, the significant resource demands of LLMs often require cloud hosting, which raises issues regarding privacy, latency, and usage limitations. Although edge intelligence has long been utilized to solve these challenges by enabling real-time AI computation on ubiquitous edge resources close to data sources, most research has focused on traditional AI models and has left a gap in addressing the unique characteristics of LLM inference, such as considerable model size, auto-regressive processes, and self-attention mechanisms. In this paper, we present an edge intelligence optimization problem tailored for LLM inference.
Specifically, with the deployment of the batching technique and model quantization on resource-limited edge devices, we formulate an inference model for transformer decoder-based LLMs. Furthermore, our approach aims to maximize the inference throughput via batch scheduling and joint allocation of communication and computation resources, while also considering edge resource constraints and varying user requirements of latency and accuracy. To address this NP-hard problem, we develop an optimal Depth-First Tree-Searching algorithm with online tree-Pruning (DFTSP) that operates within a feasible time complexity. Simulation results indicate that DFTSP surpasses other batching benchmarks in throughput across diverse user settings and quantization techniques, and it reduces time complexity by over 45% compared to the brute-force searching method.

------------

`[2405.07436] Can Language Models Explain Their Own Classification Behavior? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07436>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 02:31:08 GMT
    Dane Sherburn, Bilal Chughtai, Owain Evans

Large language models (LLMs) perform well at a myriad of tasks, but explaining the processes behind this performance is a challenge. This paper investigates whether LLMs can give faithful high-level explanations of their own internal processes. To explore this, we introduce a dataset, ArticulateRules, of few-shot text-based classification tasks generated by simple rules. Each rule is associated with a simple natural-language explanation. We test whether models that have learned to classify inputs competently (both in- and out-of-distribution) are able to articulate freeform natural language explanations that match their classification behavior. Our dataset can be used for both in-context and finetuning evaluations. We evaluate a range of LLMs, demonstrating that articulation accuracy varies considerably between models, with a particularly sharp increase from GPT-3 to GPT-4. We then investigate whether we can improve GPT-3's articulation accuracy through a range of methods. GPT-3 completely fails to articulate 7/10 rules in our test, even after additional finetuning on correct explanations. We release our dataset, ArticulateRules, which can be used to test self-explanation for LLMs trained either in-context or by finetuning.

------------

`[2405.07560] Coding historical causes of death data with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07560>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 08:50:18 GMT
    Bj{\o}rn Pedersen, Maisha Islam, Doris Tove Kristoffersen, Lars Ailo Bongo, Eilidh Garrett, Alice Reid, Hilde Sommerseth

This paper investigates the feasibility of using pre-trained generative Large Language Models (LLMs) to automate the assignment of ICD-10 codes to historical causes of death. Due to the complex narratives often found in historical causes of death, this task has traditionally been manually performed by coding experts. We evaluate the ability of GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Llama 2 LLMs to accurately assign ICD-10 codes on the HiCaD dataset that contains causes of death recorded in the civil death register entries of 19,361 individuals from Ipswich, Kilmarnock, and the Isle of Skye from the UK between 1861-1901. Our findings show that GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Llama 2 assign the correct code for 69%, 83%, and 40% of causes, respectively. However, we achieve a maximum accuracy of 89% by standard machine learning techniques. All LLMs performed better for causes of death that contained terms still in use today, compared to archaic terms. Also they perform better for short causes (1-2 words) compared to longer causes. LLMs therefore do not currently perform well enough for historical ICD-10 code assignment tasks. We suggest further fine-tuning or alternative frameworks to achieve adequate performance.

------------

`[2405.07626] AnomalyLLM: Few-shot Anomaly Edge Detection for Dynamic Graphs using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07626>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 10:37:50 GMT
    Shuo Liu, Di Yao, Lanting Fang, Zhetao Li, Wenbin Li, Kaiyu Feng, XiaoWen Ji, Jingping Bi

Detecting anomaly edges for dynamic graphs aims to identify edges significantly deviating from the normal pattern and can be applied in various domains, such as cybersecurity, financial transactions and AIOps. With the evolving of time, the types of anomaly edges are emerging and the labeled anomaly samples are few for each type. Current methods are either designed to detect randomly inserted edges or require sufficient labeled data for model training, which harms their applicability for real-world applications. In this paper, we study this problem by cooperating with the rich knowledge encoded in large language models(LLMs) and propose a method, namely AnomalyLLM. To align the dynamic graph with LLMs, AnomalyLLM pre-trains a dynamic-aware encoder to generate the representations of edges and reprograms the edges using the prototypes of word embeddings. Along with the encoder, we design an in-context learning framework that integrates the information of a few labeled samples to achieve few-shot anomaly detection. Experiments on four datasets reveal that AnomalyLLM can not only significantly improve the performance of few-shot anomaly detection, but also achieve superior results on new anomalies without any update of model parameters.

------------

`[2405.07761] LLM4ED: Large Language Models for Automatic Equation Discovery <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07761>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 14:03:49 GMT
    Mengge Du, Yuntian Chen, Zhongzheng Wang, Longfeng Nie, Dongxiao Zhang

Equation discovery is aimed at directly extracting physical laws from data and has emerged as a pivotal research domain. Previous methods based on symbolic mathematics have achieved substantial advancements, but often require the design of implementation of complex algorithms. In this paper, we introduce a new framework that utilizes natural language-based prompts to guide large language models (LLMs) in automatically mining governing equations from data.
Specifically, we first utilize the generation capability of LLMs to generate diverse equations in string form, and then evaluate the generated equations based on observations. In the optimization phase, we propose two alternately iterated strategies to optimize generated equations collaboratively. The first strategy is to take LLMs as a black-box optimizer and achieve equation self-improvement based on historical samples and their performance. The second strategy is to instruct LLMs to perform evolutionary operators for global search. Experiments are extensively conducted on both partial differential equations and ordinary differential equations. Results demonstrate that our framework can discover effective equations to reveal the underlying physical laws under various nonlinear dynamic systems. Further comparisons are made with state-of-the-art models, demonstrating good stability and usability. Our framework substantially lowers the barriers to learning and applying equation discovery techniques, demonstrating the application potential of LLMs in the field of knowledge discovery.

------------

`[2405.07863] RLHF Workflow: From Reward Modeling to Online RLHF <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07863>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 15:50:39 GMT
    Hanze Dong, Wei Xiong, Bo Pang, Haoxiang Wang, Han Zhao, Yingbo Zhou, Nan Jiang, Doyen Sahoo, Caiming Xiong, Tong Zhang

We present the workflow of Online Iterative Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) in this technical report, which is widely reported to outperform its offline counterpart by a large margin in the recent large language model (LLM) literature. However, existing open-source RLHF projects are still largely confined to the offline learning setting. In this technical report, we aim to fill in this gap and provide a detailed recipe that is easy to reproduce for online iterative RLHF. In particular, since online human feedback is usually infeasible for open-source communities with limited resources, we start by constructing preference models using a diverse set of open-source datasets and use the constructed proxy preference model to approximate human feedback. Then, we discuss the theoretical insights and algorithmic principles behind online iterative RLHF, followed by a detailed practical implementation. Our trained LLM, SFR-Iterative-DPO-LLaMA-3-8B-R, achieves impressive performance on LLM chatbot benchmarks, including AlpacaEval-2, Arena-Hard, and MT-Bench, as well as other academic benchmarks such as HumanEval and TruthfulQA. We have shown that supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and iterative RLHF can obtain state-of-the-art performance with fully open-source datasets. Further, we have made our models, curated datasets, and comprehensive step-by-step code guidebooks publicly available. Please refer to https://github.com/RLHFlow/RLHF-Reward-Modeling and https://github.com/RLHFlow/Online-RLHF for more detailed information.

------------

`[2405.06658] ProteinEngine: Empower LLM with Domain Knowledge for Protein Engineering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06658>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Apr 2024 01:07:33 GMT
    Yiqing Shen, Outongyi Lv, Houying Zhu, Yu Guang Wang

Large language models (LLMs) have garnered considerable attention for their proficiency in tackling intricate tasks, particularly leveraging their capacities for zero-shot and in-context learning. However, their utility has been predominantly restricted to general tasks due to an absence of domain-specific knowledge. This constraint becomes particularly pertinent in the realm of protein engineering, where specialized expertise is required for tasks such as protein function prediction, protein evolution analysis, and protein design, with a level of specialization that existing LLMs cannot furnish. In response to this challenge, we introduce \textsc{ProteinEngine}, a human-centered platform aimed at amplifying the capabilities of LLMs in protein engineering by seamlessly integrating a comprehensive range of relevant tools, packages, and software via API calls. Uniquely, \textsc{ProteinEngine} assigns three distinct roles to LLMs, facilitating efficient task delegation, specialized task resolution, and effective communication of results. This design fosters high extensibility and promotes the smooth incorporation of new algorithms, models, and features for future development. Extensive user studies, involving participants from both the AI and protein engineering communities across academia and industry, consistently validate the superiority of \textsc{ProteinEngine} in augmenting the reliability and precision of deep learning in protein engineering tasks. Consequently, our findings highlight the potential of \textsc{ProteinEngine} to bride the disconnected tools for future research in the protein engineering domain.

------------

`[2405.06725] On the Shape of Brainscores for Large Language Models (LLMs) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06725>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 13:22:20 GMT
    Jingkai Li

With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs), the novel metric "Brainscore" emerged as a means to evaluate the functional similarity between LLMs and human brain/neural systems. Our efforts were dedicated to mining the meaning of the novel score by constructing topological features derived from both human fMRI data involving 190 subjects, and 39 LLMs plus their untrained counterparts.
Subsequently, we trained 36 Linear Regression Models and conducted thorough statistical analyses to discern reliable and valid features from our constructed ones. Our findings reveal distinctive feature combinations conducive to interpreting existing brainscores across various brain regions of interest (ROIs) and hemispheres, thereby significantly contributing to advancing interpretable machine learning (iML) studies. The study is enriched by our further discussions and analyses concerning existing brainscores. To our knowledge, this study represents the first attempt to comprehend the novel metric brainscore within this interdisciplinary domain.

------------

`[2405.06772] CANAL -- Cyber Activity News Alerting Language Model: Empirical Approach vs. Expensive LLM <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06772>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 18:57:35 GMT
    Urjitkumar Patel, Fang-Chun Yeh, Chinmay Gondhalekar

In today's digital landscape, where cyber attacks have become the norm, the detection of cyber attacks and threats is critically imperative across diverse domains. Our research presents a new empirical framework for cyber threat modeling, adept at parsing and categorizing cyber-related information from news articles, enhancing real-time vigilance for market stakeholders. At the core of this framework is a fine-tuned BERT model, which we call CANAL - Cyber Activity News Alerting Language Model, tailored for cyber categorization using a novel silver labeling approach powered by Random Forest. We benchmark CANAL against larger, costlier LLMs, including GPT-4, LLaMA, and Zephyr, highlighting their zero to few-shot learning in cyber news classification. CANAL demonstrates superior performance by outperforming all other LLM counterparts in both accuracy and cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, we introduce the Cyber Signal Discovery module, a strategic component designed to efficiently detect emerging cyber signals from news articles. Collectively, CANAL and Cyber Signal Discovery module equip our framework to provide a robust and cost-effective solution for businesses that require agile responses to cyber intelligence.

------------

`[2405.06808] Large Language Model in Financial Regulatory Interpretation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06808>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 20:45:40 GMT
    Zhiyu Cao, Zachary Feinstein

This study explores the innovative use of Large Language Models (LLMs) as analytical tools for interpreting complex financial regulations. The primary objective is to design effective prompts that guide LLMs in distilling verbose and intricate regulatory texts, such as the Basel III capital requirement regulations, into a concise mathematical framework that can be subsequently translated into actionable code. This novel approach aims to streamline the implementation of regulatory mandates within the financial reporting and risk management systems of global banking institutions. A case study was conducted to assess the performance of various LLMs, demonstrating that GPT-4 outperforms other models in processing and collecting necessary information, as well as executing mathematical calculations. The case study utilized numerical simulations with asset holdings -- including fixed income, equities, currency pairs, and commodities -- to demonstrate how LLMs can effectively implement the Basel III capital adequacy requirements.

------------

`[2405.06823] PLeak: Prompt Leaking Attacks against Large Language Model Applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06823>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 21:52:34 GMT
    Bo Hui, Haolin Yuan, Neil Gong, Philippe Burlina, and Yinzhi Cao

Large Language Models (LLMs) enable a new ecosystem with many downstream applications, called LLM applications, with different natural language processing tasks. The functionality and performance of an LLM application highly depend on its system prompt, which instructs the backend LLM on what task to perform. Therefore, an LLM application developer often keeps a system prompt confidential to protect its intellectual property. As a result, a natural attack, called prompt leaking, is to steal the system prompt from an LLM application, which compromises the developer's intellectual property.
Existing prompt leaking attacks primarily rely on manually crafted queries, and thus achieve limited effectiveness.
In this paper, we design a novel, closed-box prompt leaking attack framework, called PLeak, to optimize an adversarial query such that when the attacker sends it to a target LLM application, its response reveals its own system prompt. We formulate finding such an adversarial query as an optimization problem and solve it with a gradient-based method approximately. Our key idea is to break down the optimization goal by optimizing adversary queries for system prompts incrementally, i.e., starting from the first few tokens of each system prompt step by step until the entire length of the system prompt.
We evaluate PLeak in both offline settings and for real-world LLM applications, e.g., those on Poe, a popular platform hosting such applications.
Our results show that PLeak can effectively leak system prompts and significantly outperforms not only baselines that manually curate queries but also baselines with optimized queries that are modified and adapted from existing jailbreaking attacks. We responsibly reported the issues to Poe and are still waiting for their response. Our implementation is available at this repository: https://github.com/BHui97/PLeak.

------------

`[2405.06964] ManiFoundation Model for General-Purpose Robotic Manipulation of Contact Synthesis with Arbitrary Objects and Robots <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06964>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 09:18:37 GMT
    Zhixuan Xu, Chongkai Gao, Zixuan Liu, Gang Yang, Chenrui Tie, Haozhuo Zheng, Haoyu Zhou, Weikun Peng, Debang Wang, Tianyi Chen, Zhouliang Yu, Lin Shao

To substantially enhance robot intelligence, there is a pressing need to develop a large model that enables general-purpose robots to proficiently undertake a broad spectrum of manipulation tasks, akin to the versatile task-planning ability exhibited by LLMs. The vast diversity in objects, robots, and manipulation tasks presents huge challenges. Our work introduces a comprehensive framework to develop a foundation model for general robotic manipulation that formalizes a manipulation task as contact synthesis.
Specifically, our model takes as input object and robot manipulator point clouds, object physical attributes, target motions, and manipulation region masks. It outputs contact points on the object and associated contact forces or post-contact motions for robots to achieve the desired manipulation task. We perform extensive experiments both in the simulation and real-world settings, manipulating articulated rigid objects, rigid objects, and deformable objects that vary in dimensionality, ranging from one-dimensional objects like ropes to two-dimensional objects like cloth and extending to three-dimensional objects such as plasticine. Our model achieves average success rates of around 90\%.
Supplementary materials and videos are available on our project website at https://manifoundationmodel.github.io/.

------------

`[2405.07162] Learning Reward for Robot Skills Using Large Language Models via Self-Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07162>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 04:57:43 GMT
    Yuwei Zeng, Yao Mu, Lin Shao

Learning reward functions remains the bottleneck to equip a robot with a broad repertoire of skills. Large Language Models (LLM) contain valuable task-related knowledge that can potentially aid in the learning of reward functions. However, the proposed reward function can be imprecise, thus ineffective which requires to be further grounded with environment information.
We proposed a method to learn rewards more efficiently in the absence of humans. Our approach consists of two components: We first use the LLM to propose features and parameterization of the reward, then update the parameters through an iterative self-alignment process. In particular, the process minimizes the ranking inconsistency between the LLM and the learnt reward functions based on the execution feedback. The method was validated on 9 tasks across 2 simulation environments. It demonstrates a consistent improvement over training efficacy and efficiency, meanwhile consuming significantly fewer GPT tokens compared to the alternative mutation-based method.

------------

`[2405.07194] Differentiable Model Scaling using Differentiable Topk <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07194>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 07:34:33 GMT
    Kai Liu, Ruohui Wang, Jianfei Gao, Kai Chen

Over the past few years, as large language models have ushered in an era of intelligence emergence, there has been an intensified focus on scaling networks. Currently, many network architectures are designed manually, often resulting in sub-optimal configurations. Although Neural Architecture Search (NAS) methods have been proposed to automate this process, they suffer from low search efficiency. This study introduces Differentiable Model Scaling (DMS), increasing the efficiency for searching optimal width and depth in networks.
DMS can model both width and depth in a direct and fully differentiable way, making it easy to optimize. We have evaluated our DMS across diverse tasks, ranging from vision tasks to NLP tasks and various network architectures, including CNNs and Transformers. Results consistently indicate that our DMS can find improved structures and outperforms state-of-the-art NAS methods.
Specifically, for image classification on ImageNet, our DMS improves the top-1 accuracy of EfficientNet-B0 and Deit-Tiny by 1.4% and 0.6%, respectively, and outperforms the state-of-the-art zero-shot NAS method, ZiCo, by 1.3% while requiring only 0.4 GPU days for searching. For object detection on COCO, DMS improves the mAP of Yolo-v8-n by 2.0%. For language modeling, our pruned Llama-7B outperforms the prior method with lower perplexity and higher zero-shot classification accuracy. We will release our code in the future.

------------

`[2405.07212] Enhancing Decision-Making in Optimization through LLM-Assisted Inference: A Neural Networks Perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07212>`__

::

    Sun, 12 May 2024 08:22:53 GMT
    Gaurav Singh and Kavitesh Kumar Bali

This paper explores the seamless integration of Generative AI (GenAI) and Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs) within the domain of large-scale multi-objective optimization. Focusing on the transformative role of Large Language Models (LLMs), our study investigates the potential of LLM-Assisted Inference to automate and enhance decision-making processes. Specifically, we highlight its effectiveness in illuminating key decision variables in evolutionarily optimized solutions while articulating contextual trade-offs. Tailored to address the challenges inherent in inferring complex multi-objective optimization solutions at scale, our approach emphasizes the adaptive nature of LLMs, allowing them to provide nuanced explanations and align their language with diverse stakeholder expertise levels and domain preferences. Empirical studies underscore the practical applicability and impact of LLM-Assisted Inference in real-world decision-making scenarios.

------------

`[2405.07518] SambaNova SN40L: Scaling the AI Memory Wall with Dataflow and Composition of Experts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07518>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 07:32:45 GMT
    Raghu Prabhakar, Ram Sivaramakrishnan, Darshan Gandhi, Yun Du, Mingran Wang, Xiangyu Song, Kejie Zhang, Tianren Gao, Angela Wang, Karen Li, Yongning Sheng, Joshua Brot, Denis Sokolov, Apurv Vivek, Calvin Leung, Arjun Sabnis, Jiayu Bai, Tuowen Zhao, Mark Gottscho, David Jackson, Mark Luttrell, Manish K. Shah, Edison Chen, Kaizhao Liang, Swayambhoo Jain, Urmish Thakker, Dawei Huang, Sumti Jairath, Kevin J. Brown, Kunle Olukotun

Monolithic large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 have paved the way for modern generative AI applications. Training, serving, and maintaining monolithic LLMs at scale, however, remains prohibitively expensive and challenging. The disproportionate increase in compute-to-memory ratio of modern AI accelerators have created a memory wall, necessitating new methods to deploy AI. Composition of Experts (CoE) is an alternative modular approach that lowers the cost and complexity of training and serving. However, this approach presents two key challenges when using conventional hardware: (1) without fused operations, smaller models have lower operational intensity, which makes high utilization more challenging to achieve; and (2) hosting a large number of models can be either prohibitively expensive or slow when dynamically switching between them.
In this paper, we describe how combining CoE, streaming dataflow, and a three-tier memory system scales the AI memory wall. We describe Samba-CoE, a CoE system with 150 experts and a trillion total parameters. We deploy Samba-CoE on the SambaNova SN40L Reconfigurable Dataflow Unit (RDU) - a commercial dataflow accelerator architecture that has been co-designed for enterprise inference and training applications. The chip introduces a new three-tier memory system with on-chip distributed SRAM, on-package HBM, and off-package DDR DRAM. A dedicated inter-RDU network enables scaling up and out over multiple sockets. We demonstrate speedups ranging from 2x to 13x on various benchmarks running on eight RDU sockets compared with an unfused baseline. We show that for CoE inference deployments, the 8-socket RDU Node reduces machine footprint by up to 19x, speeds up model switching time by 15x to 31x, and achieves an overall speedup of 3.7x over a DGX H100 and 6.6x over a DGX A100.

------------

`[2405.07580] DynLLM: When Large Language Models Meet Dynamic Graph Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07580>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 09:36:17 GMT
    Ziwei Zhao, Fake Lin, Xi Zhu, Zhi Zheng, Tong Xu, Shitian Shen, Xueying Li, Zikai Yin, Enhong Chen

Last year has witnessed the considerable interest of Large Language Models (LLMs) for their potential applications in recommender systems, which may mitigate the persistent issue of data sparsity. Though large efforts have been made for user-item graph augmentation with better graph-based recommendation performance, they may fail to deal with the dynamic graph recommendation task, which involves both structural and temporal graph dynamics with inherent complexity in processing time-evolving data. To bridge this gap, in this paper, we propose a novel framework, called DynLLM, to deal with the dynamic graph recommendation task with LLMs. Specifically, DynLLM harnesses the power of LLMs to generate multi-faceted user profiles based on the rich textual features of historical purchase records, including crowd segments, personal interests, preferred categories, and favored brands, which in turn supplement and enrich the underlying relationships between users and items. Along this line, to fuse the multi-faceted profiles with temporal graph embedding, we engage LLMs to derive corresponding profile embeddings, and further employ a distilled attention mechanism to refine the LLM-generated profile embeddings for alleviating noisy signals, while also assessing and adjusting the relevance of each distilled facet embedding for seamless integration with temporal graph embedding from continuous time dynamic graphs (CTDGs). Extensive experiments on two real e-commerce datasets have validated the superior improvements of DynLLM over a wide range of state-of-the-art baseline methods.

------------

`[2405.07638] DoLLM: How Large Language Models Understanding Network Flow Data to Detect Carpet Bombing DDoS <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07638>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 10:53:41 GMT
    Qingyang Li, Yihang Zhang, Zhidong Jia, Yannan Hu, Lei Zhang, Jianrong Zhang, Yongming Xu, Yong Cui, Zongming Guo, Xinggong Zhang

It is an interesting question Can and How Large Language Models (LLMs) understand non-language network data, and help us detect unknown malicious flows. This paper takes Carpet Bombing as a case study and shows how to exploit LLMs' powerful capability in the networking area. Carpet Bombing is a new DDoS attack that has dramatically increased in recent years, significantly threatening network infrastructures. It targets multiple victim IPs within subnets, causing congestion on access links and disrupting network services for a vast number of users. Characterized by low-rates, multi-vectors, these attacks challenge traditional DDoS defenses. We propose DoLLM, a DDoS detection model utilizes open-source LLMs as backbone. By reorganizing non-contextual network flows into Flow-Sequences and projecting them into LLMs semantic space as token embeddings, DoLLM leverages LLMs' contextual understanding to extract flow representations in overall network context. The representations are used to improve the DDoS detection performance. We evaluate DoLLM with public datasets CIC-DDoS2019 and real NetFlow trace from Top-3 countrywide ISP. The tests have proven that DoLLM possesses strong detection capabilities. Its F1 score increased by up to 33.3% in zero-shot scenarios and by at least 20.6% in real ISP traces.

------------

`[2405.07798] FreeVA: Offline MLLM as Training-Free Video Assistant <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07798>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 14:42:13 GMT
    Wenhao Wu

This paper undertakes an empirical study to revisit the latest advancements in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs): Video Assistant. This study, namely FreeVA, aims to extend existing image-based MLLM to the video domain in a training-free manner. The study provides an essential, yet must-know baseline, and reveals several surprising findings: 1) FreeVA, leveraging only offline image-based MLLM without additional training, excels in zero-shot video question-answering (e.g., MSVD-QA, ActivityNet-QA, and MSRVTT-QA), even surpassing state-of-the-art methods that involve video instruction tuning. 2) While mainstream video-based MLLMs typically initialize with an image-based MLLM (e.g., LLaVA) and then fine-tune using video instruction tuning, the study indicates that utilizing the widely adopted VideoInstruct-100K for video instruction tuning doesn't actually lead to better performance compared to not training at all. 3) The commonly used evaluation metrics in existing works are significantly influenced by changes in the GPT API version over time. If ignored, this could affect the fairness and uniformity of comparisons between different methods and impact the analysis and judgment of researchers in the field. The advancement of MLLMs is currently thriving, drawing numerous researchers into the field. We aim for this work to serve as a plug-and-play, simple yet effective baseline, encouraging the direct evaluation of existing MLLMs in video domain while also standardizing the field of video conversational models to a certain extent. Also, we encourage researchers to reconsider: Have current video MLLM methods truly acquired knowledge beyond image MLLM? Code is available at https://github.com/whwu95/FreeVA

------------

`[2405.06690] DrugLLM: Open Large Language Model for Few-shot Molecule Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06690>`__

::

    Tue, 7 May 2024 09:18:13 GMT
    Xianggen Liu, Yan Guo, Haoran Li, Jin Liu, Shudong Huang, Bowen Ke, and Jiancheng Lv

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made great strides in areas such as language processing and computer vision. Despite the emergence of diverse techniques to improve few-shot learning capacity, current LLMs fall short in handling the languages in biology and chemistry. For example, they are struggling to capture the relationship between molecule structure and pharmacochemical properties. Consequently, the few-shot learning capacity of small-molecule drug modification remains impeded. In this work, we introduced DrugLLM, a LLM tailored for drug design. During the training process, we employed Group-based Molecular Representation (GMR) to represent molecules, arranging them in sequences that reflect modifications aimed at enhancing specific molecular properties. DrugLLM learns how to modify molecules in drug discovery by predicting the next molecule based on past modifications.
Extensive computational experiments demonstrate that DrugLLM can generate new molecules with expected properties based on limited examples, presenting a powerful few-shot molecule generation capacity.

------------

`[2405.06919] Automating Thematic Analysis: How LLMs Analyse Controversial Topics <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06919>`__

::

    Sat, 11 May 2024 05:28:25 GMT
    Awais Hameed Khan, Hiruni Kegalle, Rhea D'Silva, Ned Watt, Daniel Whelan-Shamy, Lida Ghahremanlou and Liam Magee

Large Language Models (LLMs) are promising analytical tools. They can augment human epistemic, cognitive and reasoning abilities, and support 'sensemaking', making sense of a complex environment or subject by analysing large volumes of data with a sensitivity to context and nuance absent in earlier text processing systems. This paper presents a pilot experiment that explores how LLMs can support thematic analysis of controversial topics. We compare how human researchers and two LLMs GPT-4 and Llama 2 categorise excerpts from media coverage of the controversial Australian Robodebt scandal. Our findings highlight intriguing overlaps and variances in thematic categorisation between human and machine agents, and suggest where LLMs can be effective in supporting forms of discourse and thematic analysis. We argue LLMs should be used to augment, and not replace human interpretation, and we add further methodological insights and reflections to existing research on the application of automation to qualitative research methods. We also introduce a novel card-based design toolkit, for both researchers and practitioners to further interrogate LLMs as analytical tools.

------------

`[2405.07667] Backdoor Removal for Generative Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.07667>`__

::

    Mon, 13 May 2024 11:53:42 GMT
    Haoran Li, Yulin Chen, Zihao Zheng, Qi Hu, Chunkit Chan, Heshan Liu, Yangqiu Song

With rapid advances, generative large language models (LLMs) dominate various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks from understanding to reasoning. Yet, language models' inherent vulnerabilities may be exacerbated due to increased accessibility and unrestricted model training on massive textual data from the Internet. A malicious adversary may publish poisoned data online and conduct backdoor attacks on the victim LLMs pre-trained on the poisoned data.
Backdoored LLMs behave innocuously for normal queries and generate harmful responses when the backdoor trigger is activated. Despite significant efforts paid to LLMs' safety issues, LLMs are still struggling against backdoor attacks. As Anthropic recently revealed, existing safety training strategies, including supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), fail to revoke the backdoors once the LLM is backdoored during the pre-training stage. In this paper, we present Simulate and Eliminate (SANDE) to erase the undesired backdoored mappings for generative LLMs. We initially propose Overwrite Supervised Fine-tuning (OSFT) for effective backdoor removal when the trigger is known. Then, to handle the scenarios where the trigger patterns are unknown, we integrate OSFT into our two-stage framework, SANDE. Unlike previous works that center on the identification of backdoors, our safety-enhanced LLMs are able to behave normally even when the exact triggers are activated. We conduct comprehensive experiments to show that our proposed SANDE is effective against backdoor attacks while bringing minimal harm to LLMs' powerful capability without any additional access to unbackdoored clean models. We will release the reproducible code.

------------

`[2405.06649] ProLLM: Protein Chain-of-Thoughts Enhanced LLM for Protein-Protein Interaction Prediction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06649>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 05:32:42 GMT
    Mingyu Jin, Haochen Xue, Zhenting Wang, Boming Kang, Ruosong Ye, Kaixiong Zhou, Mengnan Du, Yongfeng Zhang

The prediction of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is crucial for understanding biological functions and diseases. Previous machine learning approaches to PPI prediction mainly focus on direct physical interactions, ignoring the broader context of nonphysical connections through intermediate proteins, thus limiting their effectiveness. The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) provides a new opportunity for addressing this complex biological challenge. By transforming structured data into natural language prompts, we can map the relationships between proteins into texts. This approach allows LLMs to identify indirect connections between proteins, tracing the path from upstream to downstream. Therefore, we propose a novel framework ProLLM that employs an LLM tailored for PPI for the first time. Specifically, we propose Protein Chain of Thought (ProCoT), which replicates the biological mechanism of signaling pathways as natural language prompts. ProCoT considers a signaling pathway as a protein reasoning process, which starts from upstream proteins and passes through several intermediate proteins to transmit biological signals to downstream proteins. Thus, we can use ProCoT to predict the interaction between upstream proteins and downstream proteins. The training of ProLLM employs the ProCoT format, which enhances the model's understanding of complex biological problems. In addition to ProCoT, this paper also contributes to the exploration of embedding replacement of protein sites in natural language prompts, and instruction fine-tuning in protein knowledge datasets. We demonstrate the efficacy of ProLLM through rigorous validation against benchmark datasets, showing significant improvement over existing methods in terms of prediction accuracy and generalizability. The code is available at: https://github.com/MingyuJ666/ProLLM.

------------

`[2405.06732] A Global Data-Driven Model for The Hippocampus and Nucleus Accumbens of Rat From The Local Field Potential Recordings (LFP) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06732>`__

::

    Fri, 10 May 2024 15:58:39 GMT
    Maedeh Sadeghi (1), Mahdi Aliyari Shoorehdeli (1), Shole jamali (2), Abbas Haghparast (2) ((1) Fault Detection and Identification (FDI) Laboratory, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, K. N. Toosi University of Technology, Tehran, Iran, (2) Neuroscience Research Center, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran)

In brain neural networks, Local Field Potential (LFP) signals represent the dynamic flow of information. Analyzing LFP clinical data plays a critical role in improving our understanding of brain mechanisms. One way to enhance our understanding of these mechanisms is to identify a global model to predict brain signals in different situations. This paper identifies a global data-driven based on LFP recordings of the Nucleus Accumbens and Hippocampus regions in freely moving rats. The LFP is recorded from each rat in two different situations: before and after the process of getting a reward which can be either a drug (Morphine) or natural food (like popcorn or biscuit). A comparison of five machine learning methods including Long Short Term Memory (LSTM), Echo State Network (ESN), Deep Echo State Network (DeepESN), Radial Basis Function (RBF), and Local Linear Model Tree (LLM) is conducted to develop this model. LoLiMoT was chosen with the best performance among all methods.
This model can predict the future states of these regions with one pre-trained model. Identifying this model showed that Morphine and natural rewards do not change the dynamic features of neurons in these regions.

------------

`[2311.03783] Scene-Driven Multimodal Knowledge Graph Construction for Embodied AI <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03783>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 14:58:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Yaoxian Song [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 7 Nov 2023 08:06:27 UTC (1,940 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 14:58:59 UTC (19,183 KB)
    Song Yaoxian, Sun Penglei, Liu Haoyu, Li Zhixu, Song Wei, Xiao Yanghua, Zhou Xiaofang

Embodied AI is one of the most popular studies in artificial intelligence and robotics, which can effectively improve the intelligence of real-world agents (i.e. robots) serving human beings. Scene knowledge is important for an agent to understand the surroundings and make correct decisions in the varied open world. Currently, knowledge base for embodied tasks is missing and most existing work use general knowledge base or pre-trained models to enhance the intelligence of an agent. For conventional knowledge base, it is sparse, insufficient in capacity and cost in data collection. For pre-trained models, they face the uncertainty of knowledge and hard maintenance. To overcome the challenges of scene knowledge, we propose a scene-driven multimodal knowledge graph (Scene-MMKG) construction method combining conventional knowledge engineering and large language models. A unified scene knowledge injection framework is introduced for knowledge representation. To evaluate the advantages of our proposed method, we instantiate Scene-MMKG considering typical indoor robotic functionalities (Manipulation and Mobility), named ManipMob-MMKG. Comparisons in characteristics indicate our instantiated ManipMob-MMKG has broad superiority in data-collection efficiency and knowledge quality. Experimental results on typical embodied tasks show that knowledge-enhanced methods using our instantiated ManipMob-MMKG can improve the performance obviously without re-designing model structures complexly. Our project can be found at this https URL

------------

`[2312.07553] Hijacking Context in Large Multi-modal Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07553>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 10:42:05 GMT
    Submission history From: Joon Hyun Jeong [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 7 Dec 2023 11:23:29 UTC (2,322 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 10:42:05 UTC (2,349 KB)
    Joonhyun Jeong

Recently, Large Multi-modal Models (LMMs) have demonstrated their ability to understand the visual contents of images given the instructions regarding the images. Built upon the Large Language Models (LLMs), LMMs also inherit their abilities and characteristics such as in-context learning where a coherent sequence of images and texts are given as the input prompt. However, we identify a new limitation of off-the-shelf LMMs where a small fraction of incoherent images or text descriptions mislead LMMs to only generate biased output about the hijacked context, not the originally intended context. To address this, we propose a pre-filtering method that removes irrelevant contexts via GPT-4V, based on its robustness towards distribution shift within the contexts. We further investigate whether replacing the hijacked visual and textual contexts with the correlated ones via GPT-4V and text-to-image models can help yield coherent responses.

------------

`[2306.09479] Inverse Scaling: When Bigger Isn't Better <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.09479>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 01:25:12 GMT
    Submission history From: Ian McKenzie [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Jun 2023 20:11:23 UTC (200 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 01:25:12 UTC (212 KB)
    Ian R. McKenzie, Alexander Lyzhov, Michael Pieler, Alicia Parrish, Aaron Mueller, Ameya Prabhu, Euan McLean, Aaron Kirtland, Alexis Ross, Alisa Liu, Andrew Gritsevskiy, Daniel Wurgaft, Derik Kauffman, Gabriel Recchia, Jiacheng Liu, Joe Cavanagh, Max Weiss, Sicong Huang, The Floating Droid, Tom Tseng, Tomasz Korbak, Xudong Shen, Yuhui Zhang, Zhengping Zhou, Najoung Kim, Samuel R. Bowman, Ethan Perez

Work on scaling laws has found that large language models (LMs) show predictable improvements to overall loss with increased scale (model size, training data, and compute). Here, we present evidence for the claim that LMs may show inverse scaling, or worse task performance with increased scale, e.g., due to flaws in the training objective and data. We present empirical evidence of inverse scaling on 11 datasets collected by running a public contest, the Inverse Scaling Prize, with a substantial prize pool. Through analysis of the datasets, along with other examples found in the literature, we identify four potential causes of inverse scaling: (i) preference to repeat memorized sequences over following in-context instructions, (ii) imitation of undesirable patterns in the training data, (iii) tasks containing an easy distractor task which LMs could focus on, rather than the harder real task, and (iv) correct but misleading few-shot demonstrations of the task. We release the winning datasets at this https URL to allow for further investigation of inverse scaling. Our tasks have helped drive the discovery of U-shaped and inverted-U scaling trends, where an initial trend reverses, suggesting that scaling trends are less reliable at predicting the behavior of larger-scale models than previously understood. Overall, our results suggest that there are tasks for which increased model scale alone may not lead to progress, and that more careful thought needs to go into the data and objectives for training language models.

------------

`[2309.04658] Exploring Large Language Models for Communication Games: An Empirical Study on Werewolf <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04658>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 07:08:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuzhuang Xu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 9 Sep 2023 01:56:40 UTC (1,967 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 07:08:16 UTC (1,967 KB)
    Yuzhuang Xu, Shuo Wang, Peng Li, Fuwen Luo, Xiaolong Wang, Weidong Liu, Yang Liu

Communication games, which we refer to as incomplete information games that heavily depend on natural language communication, hold significant research value in fields such as economics, social science, and artificial intelligence. In this work, we explore the problem of how to engage large language models (LLMs) in communication games, and in response, propose a tuning-free framework. Our approach keeps LLMs frozen, and relies on the retrieval and reflection on past communications and experiences for improvement. An empirical study on the representative and widely-studied communication game, ``Werewolf'', demonstrates that our framework can effectively play Werewolf game without tuning the parameters of the LLMs. More importantly, strategic behaviors begin to emerge in our experiments, suggesting that it will be a fruitful journey to engage LLMs in communication games and associated domains.

------------

`[2310.02129] Unveiling the Pitfalls of Knowledge Editing for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02129>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 10 May 2024 18:35:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Ningyu Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 15:10:46 UTC (386 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 21 Nov 2023 17:59:04 UTC (443 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 16:58:53 UTC (447 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 26 Mar 2024 14:38:23 UTC (447 KB)
    [v5] Fri, 10 May 2024 18:35:48 UTC (440 KB)
    Zhoubo Li, Ningyu Zhang, Yunzhi Yao, Mengru Wang, Xi Chen, Huajun Chen

As the cost associated with fine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs) continues to rise, recent research efforts have pivoted towards developing methodologies to edit implicit knowledge embedded within LLMs. Yet, there's still a dark cloud lingering overhead -- will knowledge editing trigger butterfly effect? since it is still unclear whether knowledge editing might introduce side effects that pose potential risks or not. This paper pioneers the investigation into the potential pitfalls associated with knowledge editing for LLMs. To achieve this, we introduce new benchmark datasets and propose innovative evaluation metrics. Our results underline two pivotal concerns: (1) Knowledge Conflict: Editing groups of facts that logically clash can magnify the inherent inconsistencies in LLMs-a facet neglected by previous methods. (2) Knowledge Distortion: Altering parameters with the aim of editing factual knowledge can irrevocably warp the innate knowledge structure of LLMs. Experimental results vividly demonstrate that knowledge editing might inadvertently cast a shadow of unintended consequences on LLMs, which warrant attention and efforts for future works. Code and data are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.03031] How Prevalent is Gender Bias in ChatGPT? -- Exploring German and English ChatGPT Responses <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03031>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 13:04:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Stefanie Urchs [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 07:54:25 UTC (174 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 17 Apr 2024 09:04:28 UTC (175 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 13 May 2024 13:04:57 UTC (175 KB)
    Stefanie Urchs and Veronika Thurner and Matthias A{\ss}enmacher and Christian Heumann and Stephanie Thiemichen

With the introduction of ChatGPT, OpenAI made large language models (LLM) accessible to users with limited IT expertise. However, users with no background in natural language processing (NLP) might lack a proper understanding of LLMs. Thus the awareness of their inherent limitations, and therefore will take the systems' output at face value. In this paper, we systematically analyse prompts and the generated responses to identify possible problematic issues with a special focus on gender biases, which users need to be aware of when processing the system's output. We explore how ChatGPT reacts in English and German if prompted to answer from a female, male, or neutral perspective. In an in-depth investigation, we examine selected prompts and analyse to what extent responses differ if the system is prompted several times in an identical way. On this basis, we show that ChatGPT is indeed useful for helping non-IT users draft texts for their daily work. However, it is absolutely crucial to thoroughly check the system's responses for biases as well as for syntactic and grammatical mistakes.

------------

`[2311.08605] Exploring the Jungle of Bias: Political Bias Attribution in Language Models via Dependency Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08605>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 13:56:25 GMT
    Submission history From: David F. Jenny [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 00:02:25 UTC (15,338 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 13:56:25 UTC (2,768 KB)
    David F. Jenny, Yann Billeter, Mrinmaya Sachan, Bernhard Sch\"olkopf, Zhijing Jin

The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has sparked intense debate regarding the prevalence of bias in these models and its mitigation. Yet, as exemplified by both results on debiasing methods in the literature and reports of alignment-related defects from the wider community, bias remains a poorly understood topic despite its practical relevance. To enhance the understanding of the internal causes of bias, we analyse LLM bias through the lens of causal fairness analysis, which enables us to both comprehend the origins of bias and reason about its downstream consequences and mitigation. To operationalize this framework, we propose a prompt-based method for the extraction of confounding and mediating attributes which contribute to the LLM decision process. By applying Activity Dependency Networks (ADNs), we then analyse how these attributes influence an LLM's decision process. We apply our method to LLM ratings of argument quality in political debates. We find that the observed disparate treatment can at least in part be attributed to confounding and mitigating attributes and model misalignment, and discuss the consequences of our findings for human-AI alignment and bias mitigation. Our code and data are at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.16639] Scaling Political Texts with Large Language Models: Asking a Chatbot Might Be All You Need <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.16639>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 14:16:05 GMT
    Submission history From: Gael Le Mens [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 28 Nov 2023 09:45:02 UTC (410 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 14:16:05 UTC (2,224 KB)
    Ga\"el Le Mens and Aina Gallego

We use instruction-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4, MiXtral, and Llama 3 to position political texts within policy and ideological spaces. We directly ask the LLMs where a text document or its author stand on the focal policy dimension. We illustrate and validate the approach by scaling British party manifestos on the economic, social, and immigration policy dimensions; speeches from a European Parliament debate in 10 languages on the anti- to pro-subsidy dimension; Senators of the 117th US Congress based on their tweets on the left-right ideological spectrum; and tweets published by US Representatives and Senators after the training cutoff date of GPT-4. The correlation between the position estimates obtained with the best LLMs and benchmarks based on coding by experts, crowdworkers or roll call votes exceeds .90. This training-free approach also outperforms supervised classifiers trained on large amounts of data. Using instruction-tuned LLMs to scale texts in policy and ideological spaces is fast, cost-efficient, reliable, and reproducible (in the case of open LLMs) even if the texts are short and written in different languages. We conclude with cautionary notes about the need for empirical validation.

------------

`[2401.14109] CompactifAI: Extreme Compression of Large Language Models using Quantum-Inspired Tensor Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14109>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 10:48:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Roman Orus [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 25 Jan 2024 11:45:21 UTC (1,402 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 10:48:36 UTC (1,397 KB)
    Andrei Tomut, Saeed S. Jahromi, Abhijoy Sarkar, Uygar Kurt, Sukhbinder Singh, Faysal Ishtiaq, Cesar Mu\~noz, Prabdeep Singh Bajaj, Ali Elborady, Gianni del Bimbo, Mehrazin Alizadeh, David Montero, Pablo Martin-Ramiro, Muhammad Ibrahim, Oussama Tahiri Alaoui, John Malcolm, Samuel Mugel, Roman Orus

Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and LlaMA are advancing rapidly in generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), but their immense size poses significant challenges, such as huge training and inference costs, substantial energy demands, and limitations for on-site deployment. Traditional compression methods such as pruning, distillation, and low-rank approximation focus on reducing the effective number of neurons in the network, while quantization focuses on reducing the numerical precision of individual weights to reduce the model size while keeping the number of neurons fixed. While these compression methods have been relatively successful in practice, there is no compelling reason to believe that truncating the number of neurons is an optimal strategy. In this context, this paper introduces CompactifAI, an innovative LLM compression approach using quantum-inspired Tensor Networks that focuses on the model's correlation space instead, allowing for a more controlled, refined and interpretable model compression. Our method is versatile and can be implemented with - or on top of - other compression techniques. As a benchmark, we demonstrate that a combination of CompactifAI with quantization allows to reduce a 93% the memory size of LlaMA 7B, reducing also 70% the number of parameters, accelerating 50% the training and 25% the inference times of the model, and just with a small accuracy drop of 2% - 3%, going much beyond of what is achievable today by other compression techniques. Our methods also allow to perform a refined layer sensitivity profiling, showing that deeper layers tend to be more suitable for tensor network compression, which is compatible with recent observations on the ineffectiveness of those layers for LLM performance. Our results imply that standard LLMs are, in fact, heavily overparametrized, and do not need to be large at all.

------------

`[2402.11295] OneBit: Towards Extremely Low-bit Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11295>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 07:15:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuzhuang Xu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 14:26:57 UTC (1,060 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 07:15:07 UTC (1,060 KB)
    Yuzhuang Xu, Xu Han, Zonghan Yang, Shuo Wang, Qingfu Zhu, Zhiyuan Liu, Weidong Liu, Wanxiang Che

Model quantification uses low bit-width values to represent the weight matrices of models, which is a promising approach to reduce both storage and computational overheads of deploying highly anticipated LLMs. However, existing quantization methods suffer severe performance degradation when the bit-width is extremely reduced, and thus focus on utilizing 4-bit or 8-bit values to quantize models. This paper boldly quantizes the weight matrices of LLMs to 1-bit, paving the way for the extremely low bit-width deployment of LLMs. For this target, we introduce a 1-bit quantization-aware training (QAT) framework named OneBit, including a novel 1-bit parameter representation method to better quantize LLMs as well as an effective parameter initialization method based on matrix decomposition to improve the convergence speed of the QAT framework. Sufficient experimental results indicate that OneBit achieves good performance (at least 83% of the non-quantized performance) with robust training processes when only using 1-bit weight matrices.

------------

`[2402.12563] Confidence Matters: Revisiting Intrinsic Self-Correction Capabilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12563>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 11:01:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Loka Li [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 21:38:02 UTC (22,020 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 06:32:35 UTC (22,054 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 13 May 2024 11:01:17 UTC (22,054 KB)
    Loka Li, Zhenhao Chen, Guangyi Chen, Yixuan Zhang, Yusheng Su, Eric Xing, Kun Zhang

The recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has catalyzed an increasing interest in their self-correction capabilities. This paper presents a comprehensive investigation into the intrinsic self-correction of LLMs, attempting to address the ongoing debate about its feasibility. Our research has identified an important latent factor - the "confidence" of LLMs - during the self-correction process. Overlooking this factor may cause the models to over-criticize themselves, resulting in unreliable conclusions regarding the efficacy of self-correction. We have experimentally observed that LLMs possess the capability to understand the "confidence" in their own responses. It motivates us to develop an "If-or-Else" (IoE) prompting framework, designed to guide LLMs in assessing their own "confidence", facilitating intrinsic self-corrections. We conduct extensive experiments and demonstrate that our IoE-based Prompt can achieve a consistent improvement regarding the accuracy of self-corrected responses over the initial answers. Our study not only sheds light on the underlying factors affecting self-correction in LLMs, but also introduces a practical framework that utilizes the IoE prompting principle to efficiently improve self-correction capabilities with "confidence". The code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2403.09734] Do Large Language Models Solve ARC Visual Analogies Like People Do? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09734>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 11:20:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Gustaw Opieka [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 13 Mar 2024 09:48:13 UTC (2,082 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 11:20:23 UTC (2,838 KB)
    Gustaw Opie{\l}ka, Hannes Rosenbusch, Veerle Vijverberg, Claire E. Stevenson

The Abstraction Reasoning Corpus (ARC) is a visual analogical reasoning test designed for humans and machines (Chollet, 2019). We compared human and large language model (LLM) performance on a new child-friendly set of ARC items. Results show that both children and adults outperform most LLMs on these tasks. Error analysis revealed a similar "fallback" solution strategy in LLMs and young children, where part of the analogy is simply copied. In addition, we found two other error types, one based on seemingly grasping key concepts (e.g., Inside-Outside) and the other based on simple combinations of analogy input matrices. On the whole, "concept" errors were more common in humans, and "matrix" errors were more common in LLMs. This study sheds new light on LLM reasoning ability and the extent to which we can use error analyses and comparisons with human development to understand how LLMs solve visual analogies.

------------

`[2404.01461] Will the Real Linda Please Stand up...to Large Language Models? Examining the Representativeness Heuristic in LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01461>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 05:44:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Pengda Wang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 20:15:06 UTC (611 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 05:44:39 UTC (609 KB)
    Pengda Wang, Zilin Xiao, Hanjie Chen, Frederick L. Oswald

Although large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in "understanding" text and generating human-like text, they may exhibit biases acquired from training data in doing so. Specifically, LLMs may be susceptible to a common cognitive trap in human decision-making called the representativeness heuristic. This is a concept in psychology that refers to judging the likelihood of an event based on how closely it resembles a well-known prototype or typical example versus considering broader facts or statistical evidence. This work investigates the impact of the representativeness heuristic on LLM reasoning. We created ReHeAT (Representativeness Heuristic AI Testing), a dataset containing a series of problems spanning six common types of representativeness heuristics. Experiments reveal that four LLMs applied to REHEAT all exhibited representativeness heuristic biases. We further identify that the model's reasoning steps are often incorrectly based on a stereotype rather than the problem's description. Interestingly, the performance improves when adding a hint in the prompt to remind the model of using its knowledge. This suggests the uniqueness of the representativeness heuristic compared to traditional biases. It can occur even when LLMs possess the correct knowledge while failing in a cognitive trap. This highlights the importance of future research focusing on the representativeness heuristic in model reasoning and decision-making and on developing solutions to address it.

------------

`[2404.03381] Learning to Plan and Generate Text with Citations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03381>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 15:47:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Constanza Fierro [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 4 Apr 2024 11:27:54 UTC (7,603 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 15:47:57 UTC (7,665 KB)
    Constanza Fierro, Reinald Kim Amplayo, Fantine Huot, Nicola De Cao, Joshua Maynez, Shashi Narayan, Mirella Lapata

The increasing demand for the deployment of LLMs in information-seeking scenarios has spurred efforts in creating verifiable systems, which generate responses to queries along with supporting evidence. In this paper, we explore the attribution capabilities of plan-based models which have been recently shown to improve the faithfulness, grounding, and controllability of generated text. We conceptualize plans as a sequence of questions which serve as blueprints of the generated content and its organization. We propose two attribution models that utilize different variants of blueprints, an abstractive model where questions are generated from scratch, and an extractive model where questions are copied from the input. Experiments on long-form question-answering show that planning consistently improves attribution quality. Moreover, the citations generated by blueprint models are more accurate compared to those obtained from LLM-based pipelines lacking a planning component.

------------

`[2404.04292] Conversational Disease Diagnosis via External Planner-Controlled Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.04292>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 11:58:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhoujian Sun [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 4 Apr 2024 06:16:35 UTC (551 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 28 Apr 2024 11:19:53 UTC (1,208 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 9 May 2024 08:14:50 UTC (1,279 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 13 May 2024 11:58:58 UTC (1,378 KB)
    Zhoujian Sun, Cheng Luo, Ziyi Liu, Zhengxing Huang

The development of large language models (LLMs) has brought unprecedented possibilities for artificial intelligence (AI) based medical diagnosis. However, the application perspective of LLMs in real diagnostic scenarios is still unclear because they are not adept at collecting patient data proactively. This study presents a LLM-based diagnostic system that enhances planning capabilities by emulating doctors. Our system involves two external planners to handle planning tasks. The first planner employs a reinforcement learning approach to formulate disease screening questions and conduct initial diagnoses. The second planner uses LLMs to parse medical guidelines and conduct differential diagnoses. By utilizing real patient electronic medical record data, we constructed simulated dialogues between virtual patients and doctors and evaluated the diagnostic abilities of our system. We demonstrate that our system significantly surpasses existing models, including GPT-4 Turbo, in both disease screening and differential diagnoses. This research represents a step towards more seamlessly integrating AI into clinical settings, potentially enhancing the accuracy and accessibility of medical diagnostics.

------------

`[2404.14795] Talk Too Much: Poisoning Large Language Models under Token Limit <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14795>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 10:40:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiaming He [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 Apr 2024 07:19:20 UTC (1,136 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 24 Apr 2024 02:59:16 UTC (1,135 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 11 May 2024 10:40:58 UTC (1,136 KB)
    Jiaming He, Wenbo Jiang, Guanyu Hou, Wenshu Fan, Rui Zhang, Hongwei Li

Mainstream poisoning attacks on large language models (LLMs) typically set a fixed trigger in the input instance and specific responses for triggered queries. However, the fixed trigger setting (e.g., unusual words) may be easily detected by human detection, limiting the effectiveness and practicality in real-world scenarios. To enhance the stealthiness of the trigger, we present a poisoning attack against LLMs that is triggered by a generation/output condition-token limitation, which is a commonly adopted strategy by users for reducing costs. The poisoned model performs normally for output without token limitation, while becomes harmful for output with limited tokens. To achieve this objective, we introduce BrieFool, an efficient attack framework. It leverages the characteristics of generation limitation by efficient instruction sampling and poisoning data generation, thereby influencing the behavior of LLMs under target conditions. Our experiments demonstrate that BrieFool is effective across safety domains and knowledge domains. For instance, with only 20 generated poisoning examples against GPT-3.5-turbo, BrieFool achieves a 100% Attack Success Rate (ASR) and a 9.28/10 average Harmfulness Score (HS) under token limitation conditions while maintaining the benign performance.

------------

`[2405.02178] Assessing and Verifying Task Utility in LLM-Powered Applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02178>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 15:52:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Negar Arabzadeh [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 3 May 2024 15:26:27 UTC (15,598 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 15:52:49 UTC (15,598 KB)
    Negar Arabzadeh, Siqing Huo, Nikhil Mehta, Qinqyun Wu, Chi Wang, Ahmed Awadallah, Charles L. A. Clarke and Julia Kiseleva

The rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to a surge in applications that facilitate collaboration among multiple agents, assisting humans in their daily tasks. However, a significant gap remains in assessing to what extent LLM-powered applications genuinely enhance user experience and task execution efficiency. This highlights the need to verify utility of LLM-powered applications, particularly by ensuring alignment between the application's functionality and end-user needs. We introduce AgentEval, a novel framework designed to simplify the utility verification process by automatically proposing a set of criteria tailored to the unique purpose of any given application. This allows for a comprehensive assessment, quantifying the utility of an application against the suggested criteria. We present a comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness and robustness of AgentEval for two open source datasets including Math Problem solving and ALFWorld House-hold related tasks. For reproducibility purposes, we make the data, code and all the logs publicly available at this https URL .

------------

`[2405.04819] DALK: Dynamic Co-Augmentation of LLMs and KG to answer Alzheimer's Disease Questions with Scientific Literature <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04819>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 08:39:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Dawei Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 8 May 2024 05:38:20 UTC (375 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 08:39:24 UTC (374 KB)
    Dawei Li, Shu Yang, Zhen Tan, Jae Young Baik, Sukwon Yun, Joseph Lee, Aaron Chacko, Bojian Hou, Duy Duong-Tran, Ying Ding, Huan Liu, Li Shen, Tianlong Chen

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have achieved promising performances across various applications. Nonetheless, the ongoing challenge of integrating long-tail knowledge continues to impede the seamless adoption of LLMs in specialized domains. In this work, we introduce DALK, a.k.a. Dynamic Co-Augmentation of LLMs and KG, to address this limitation and demonstrate its ability on studying Alzheimer's Disease (AD), a specialized sub-field in biomedicine and a global health priority. With a synergized framework of LLM and KG mutually enhancing each other, we first leverage LLM to construct an evolving AD-specific knowledge graph (KG) sourced from AD-related scientific literature, and then we utilize a coarse-to-fine sampling method with a novel self-aware knowledge retrieval approach to select appropriate knowledge from the KG to augment LLM inference capabilities. The experimental results, conducted on our constructed AD question answering (ADQA) benchmark, underscore the efficacy of DALK. Additionally, we perform a series of detailed analyses that can offer valuable insights and guidelines for the emerging topic of mutually enhancing KG and LLM. We will release the code and data at this https URL.

------------

`[2405.05466] Poser: Unmasking Alignment Faking LLMs by Manipulating Their Internals <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.05466>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 04:45:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Joshua Clymer [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 8 May 2024 23:44:08 UTC (2,812 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 04:45:59 UTC (2,847 KB)
    Joshua Clymer, Caden Juang, Severin Field

Like a criminal under investigation, Large Language Models (LLMs) might pretend to be aligned while evaluated and misbehave when they have a good opportunity. Can current interpretability methods catch these 'alignment fakers?' To answer this question, we introduce a benchmark that consists of 324 pairs of LLMs fine-tuned to select actions in role-play scenarios. One model in each pair is consistently benign (aligned). The other model misbehaves in scenarios where it is unlikely to be caught (alignment faking). The task is to identify the alignment faking model using only inputs where the two models behave identically. We test five detection strategies, one of which identifies 98% of alignment-fakers.

------------

`[2405.06373] LLM Discussion: Enhancing the Creativity of Large Language Models via Discussion Framework and Role-Play <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06373>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 10:01:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Shou-Jen Chen [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 10 May 2024 10:19:14 UTC (3,382 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 10:01:03 UTC (3,381 KB)
    Li-Chun Lu, Shou-Jen Chen, Tsung-Min Pai, Chan-Hung Yu, Hung-yi Lee, Shao-Hua Sun

Large language models (LLMs) have shown exceptional proficiency in natural language processing but often fall short of generating creative and original responses to open-ended questions. To enhance LLM creativity, our key insight is to emulate the human process of inducing collective creativity through engaging discussions with participants from diverse backgrounds and perspectives. To this end, we propose LLM Discussion, a three-phase discussion framework that facilitates vigorous and diverging idea exchanges and ensures convergence to creative answers. Moreover, we adopt a role-playing technique by assigning distinct roles to LLMs to combat the homogeneity of LLMs. We evaluate the efficacy of the proposed framework with the Alternative Uses Test, Similarities Test, Instances Test, and Scientific Creativity Test through both LLM evaluation and human study. Our proposed framework outperforms single-LLM approaches and existing multi-LLM frameworks across various creativity metrics.

------------

`[2306.02865] Seizing Serendipity: Exploiting the Value of Past Success in Off-Policy Actor-Critic <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02865>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 08:35:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Tianying Ji [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Jun 2023 13:38:14 UTC (34,018 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Jun 2023 09:52:29 UTC (34,018 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 12 Oct 2023 18:16:24 UTC (36,594 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 21:01:03 UTC (30,475 KB)
    [v5] Sun, 12 May 2024 08:35:58 UTC (35,376 KB)
    Tianying Ji, Yu Luo, Fuchun Sun, Xianyuan Zhan, Jianwei Zhang, Huazhe Xu

Learning high-quality $Q$-value functions plays a key role in the success of many modern off-policy deep reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. Previous works primarily focus on addressing the value overestimation issue, an outcome of adopting function approximators and off-policy learning. Deviating from the common viewpoint, we observe that $Q$-values are often underestimated in the latter stage of the RL training process, potentially hindering policy learning and reducing sample efficiency. We find that such a long-neglected phenomenon is often related to the use of inferior actions from the current policy in Bellman updates as compared to the more optimal action samples in the replay buffer. To address this issue, our insight is to incorporate sufficient exploitation of past successes while maintaining exploration optimism. We propose the Blended Exploitation and Exploration (BEE) operator, a simple yet effective approach that updates $Q$-value using both historical best-performing actions and the current policy. Based on BEE, the resulting practical algorithm BAC outperforms state-of-the-art methods in over 50 continuous control tasks and achieves strong performance in failure-prone scenarios and real-world robot tasks. Benchmark results and videos are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2401.13920] LocMoE: A Low-Overhead MoE for Large Language Model Training <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13920>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 10:11:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Jing Li [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 25 Jan 2024 03:36:39 UTC (5,199 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 10:11:49 UTC (9,368 KB)
    Jing Li, Zhijie Sun, Xuan He, Li Zeng, Yi Lin, Entong Li, Binfan Zheng, Rongqian Zhao, Xin Chen

The Mixtures-of-Experts (MoE) model is a widespread distributed and integrated learning method for large language models (LLM), which is favored due to its ability to sparsify and expand models efficiently. However, the performance of MoE is limited by load imbalance and high latency of All-to-All communication, along with relatively redundant computation owing to large expert capacity. Load imbalance may result from existing routing policies that consistently tend to select certain experts. The frequent inter-node communication in the All-to-All procedure also significantly prolongs the training time. To alleviate the above performance problems, we propose a novel routing strategy that combines load balance and locality by converting partial inter-node communication to that of intra-node. Notably, we elucidate that there is a minimum threshold for expert capacity, calculated through the maximal angular deviation between the gating weights of the experts and the assigned tokens. We port these modifications on the PanGu-Sigma model based on the MindSpore framework with multi-level routing and conduct experiments on Ascend clusters. The experiment results demonstrate that the proposed LocMoE reduces training time per epoch by 12.68% to 22.24% compared to classical routers, such as hash router and switch router, without impacting the model accuracy.

------------

`[2405.06219] SKVQ: Sliding-window Key and Value Cache Quantization for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06219>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 14:39:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Haojie Duanmu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 10 May 2024 03:06:24 UTC (2,865 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 14:39:11 UTC (2,866 KB)
    Haojie Duanmu, Zhihang Yuan, Xiuhong Li, Jiangfei Duan, Xingcheng Zhang, Dahua Lin

Large language models (LLMs) can now handle longer sequences of tokens, enabling complex tasks like book understanding and generating lengthy novels. However, the key-value (KV) cache required for LLMs consumes substantial memory as context length increasing, becoming the bottleneck for deployment. In this paper, we present a strategy called SKVQ, which stands for sliding-window KV cache quantization, to address the issue of extremely low bitwidth KV cache quantization. To achieve this, SKVQ rearranges the channels of the KV cache in order to improve the similarity of channels in quantization groups, and applies clipped dynamic quantization at the group level. Additionally, SKVQ ensures that the most recent window tokens in the KV cache are preserved with high precision. This helps maintain the accuracy of a small but important portion of the KV cache.SKVQ achieves high compression ratios while maintaining accuracy. Our evaluation on LLMs demonstrates that SKVQ surpasses previous quantization approaches, allowing for quantization of the KV cache to 2-bit keys and 1.5-bit values with minimal loss of accuracy. With SKVQ, it is possible to process context lengths of up to 1M on an 80GB memory GPU for a 7b model and up to 7 times faster decoding.

------------

`[2402.01536] Homogenization Effects of Large Language Models on Human Creative Ideation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01536>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 10 May 2024 20:10:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Max Kreminski [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 16:27:11 UTC (454 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 10 May 2024 20:10:22 UTC (469 KB)
    Barrett R. Anderson, Jash Hemant Shah, Max Kreminski

Large language models (LLMs) are now being used in a wide variety of contexts, including as creativity support tools (CSTs) intended to help their users come up with new ideas. But do LLMs actually support user creativity? We hypothesized that the use of an LLM as a CST might make the LLM's users feel more creative, and even broaden the range of ideas suggested by each individual user, but also homogenize the ideas suggested by different users. We conducted a 36-participant comparative user study and found, in accordance with the homogenization hypothesis, that different users tended to produce less semantically distinct ideas with ChatGPT than with an alternative CST. Additionally, ChatGPT users generated a greater number of more detailed ideas, but felt less responsible for the ideas they generated. We discuss potential implications of these findings for users, designers, and developers of LLM-based CSTs.

------------

`[2404.00971] Exploring and Evaluating Hallucinations in LLM-Powered Code Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00971>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 02:50:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Fang Liu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:31:45 UTC (584 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 02:50:50 UTC (584 KB)
    Fang Liu, Yang Liu, Lin Shi, Houkun Huang, Ruifeng Wang, Zhen Yang, Li Zhang, Zhongqi Li, Yuchi Ma

The rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly advanced many applications on software engineering tasks, particularly in code generation. Despite the promising performance, LLMs are prone to generate hallucinations, which means LLMs might produce outputs that deviate from users' intent, exhibit internal inconsistencies, or misalign with the factual knowledge, making the deployment of LLMs potentially risky in a wide range of applications. Existing work mainly focuses on investing the hallucination in the domain of natural language generation (NLG), leaving a gap in understanding the types and extent of hallucinations in the context of code generation. To bridge the gap, we conducted a thematic analysis of the LLM-generated code to summarize and categorize the hallucinations present in it. Our study established a comprehensive taxonomy of hallucinations in LLM-generated code, encompassing 5 primary categories of hallucinations depending on the conflicting objectives and varying degrees of deviation observed in code generation. Furthermore, we systematically analyzed the distribution of hallucinations, exploring variations among different LLMs and their correlation with code correctness. Based on the results, we proposed HalluCode, a benchmark for evaluating the performance of code LLMs in recognizing hallucinations. Hallucination recognition and mitigation experiments with HalluCode and HumanEval show existing LLMs face great challenges in recognizing hallucinations, particularly in identifying their types, and are hardly able to mitigate hallucinations. We believe our findings will shed light on future research about hallucination evaluation, detection, and mitigation, ultimately paving the way for building more effective and reliable code LLMs in the future.

------------

`[2404.14646] Exploring and Unleashing the Power of Large Language Models in Automated Code Translation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14646>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 13:20:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhen Yang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 Apr 2024 00:49:46 UTC (818 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 13:20:19 UTC (794 KB)
    Zhen Yang, Fang Liu, Zhongxing Yu, Jacky Wai Keung, Jia Li, Shuo Liu, Yifan Hong, Xiaoxue Ma, Zhi Jin, and Ge Li

Code translation tools (transpilers) are developed for automatic source-to-source translation. Although learning-based transpilers have shown impressive enhancement against rule-based counterparts, owing to their task-specific pre-training on extensive monolingual corpora. Their current performance still remains unsatisfactory for practical deployment, and the associated training resources are also prohibitively expensive. LLMs pre-trained on huge amounts of human-written code/text have shown remarkable performance in many code intelligence tasks due to their powerful generality, even without task-specific training. Thus, LLMs can potentially circumvent the above limitations, but they have not been exhaustively explored yet. This paper investigates diverse LLMs and learning-based transpilers for automated code translation tasks, finding that: although certain LLMs have outperformed current transpilers, they still have some accuracy issues, where most of the failures are induced by a lack of comprehension of source programs, missing clear instructions on I/O types in translation, and ignoring discrepancies between source and target programs. Enlightened by the above findings, we further propose UniTrans, a Unified code Translation framework, applicable to various LLMs, for unleashing their power in this field. Specifically, UniTrans first crafts a series of test cases for target programs with the assistance of source programs. Next, it harnesses the above auto-generated test cases to augment the code translation and then evaluate their correctness via execution. Afterward, UniTrans further (iteratively) repairs incorrectly translated programs prompted by test case execution results. Extensive experiments are conducted on six settings of translation datasets between Python, Java, and C++. Three recent LLMs of diverse sizes are tested with UniTrans, and all achieve substantial improvements.

------------

`[2405.03727] Large Language Models Synergize with Automated Machine Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.03727>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 11 May 2024 07:49:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinglue Xu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 6 May 2024 08:09:46 UTC (6,401 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 11 May 2024 07:49:39 UTC (6,316 KB)
    Jinglue Xu, Jialong Li, Zhen Liu, Nagar Anthel Venkatesh Suryanarayanan, Guoyuan Zhou, Jia Guo, Hitoshi Iba, Kenji Tei

Recently, program synthesis driven by large language models (LLMs) has become increasingly popular. However, program synthesis for machine learning (ML) tasks still poses significant challenges. This paper explores a novel form of program synthesis, targeting ML programs, by combining LLMs and automated machine learning (autoML). Specifically, our goal is to fully automate the generation and optimization of the code of the entire ML workflow, from data preparation to modeling and post-processing, utilizing only textual descriptions of the ML tasks. To manage the length and diversity of ML programs, we propose to break each ML program into smaller, manageable parts. Each part is generated separately by the LLM, with careful consideration of their compatibilities. To ensure compatibilities, we design a testing technique for ML programs. Unlike traditional program synthesis, which typically relies on binary evaluations (i.e., correct or incorrect), evaluating ML programs necessitates more than just binary judgments. Therefore, we further assess ML programs numerically and select the optimal programs from a range of candidates using AutoML methods. In experiments across various ML tasks, our method outperforms existing methods in 10 out of 12 tasks for generating ML programs. In addition, autoML significantly improves the performance of the generated ML programs. In experiments, given the textual task description, our method, Text-to-ML, generates the complete and optimized ML program in a fully autonomous process.

------------

`[2405.06289] Look Once to Hear: Target Speech Hearing with Noisy Examples <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.06289>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 17:05:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Bandhav Veluri [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 10 May 2024 07:44:18 UTC (24,321 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 17:05:26 UTC (24,321 KB)
    Bandhav Veluri, Malek Itani, Tuochao Chen, Takuya Yoshioka, Shyamnath Gollakota

In crowded settings, the human brain can focus on speech from a target speaker, given prior knowledge of how they sound. We introduce a novel intelligent hearable system that achieves this capability, enabling target speech hearing to ignore all interfering speech and noise, but the target speaker. A naive approach is to require a clean speech example to enroll the target speaker. This is however not well aligned with the hearable application domain since obtaining a clean example is challenging in real world scenarios, creating a unique user interface problem. We present the first enrollment interface where the wearer looks at the target speaker for a few seconds to capture a single, short, highly noisy, binaural example of the target speaker. This noisy example is used for enrollment and subsequent speech extraction in the presence of interfering speakers and noise. Our system achieves a signal quality improvement of 7.01 dB using less than 5 seconds of noisy enrollment audio and can process 8 ms of audio chunks in 6.24 ms on an embedded CPU. Our user studies demonstrate generalization to real-world static and mobile speakers in previously unseen indoor and outdoor multipath environments. Finally, our enrollment interface for noisy examples does not cause performance degradation compared to clean examples, while being convenient and user-friendly. Taking a step back, this paper takes an important step towards enhancing the human auditory perception with artificial intelligence. We provide code and data at: this https URL.

------------

`[2308.14391] FIRE: Food Image to REcipe generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14391>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 18:45:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Prateek Chhikara [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 28 Aug 2023 08:14:20 UTC (2,060 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 18:45:52 UTC (2,060 KB)
    Prateek Chhikara, Dhiraj Chaurasia, Yifan Jiang, Omkar Masur, Filip Ilievski

Food computing has emerged as a prominent multidisciplinary field of research in recent years. An ambitious goal of food computing is to develop end-to-end intelligent systems capable of autonomously producing recipe information for a food image. Current image-to-recipe methods are retrieval-based and their success depends heavily on the dataset size and diversity, as well as the quality of learned embeddings. Meanwhile, the emergence of powerful attention-based vision and language models presents a promising avenue for accurate and generalizable recipe generation, which has yet to be extensively explored. This paper proposes FIRE, a novel multimodal methodology tailored to recipe generation in the food computing domain, which generates the food title, ingredients, and cooking instructions based on input food images. FIRE leverages the BLIP model to generate titles, utilizes a Vision Transformer with a decoder for ingredient extraction, and employs the T5 model to generate recipes incorporating titles and ingredients as inputs. We showcase two practical applications that can benefit from integrating FIRE with large language model prompting: recipe customization to fit recipes to user preferences and recipe-to-code transformation to enable automated cooking processes. Our experimental findings validate the efficacy of our proposed approach, underscoring its potential for future advancements and widespread adoption in food computing.

------------

`[2310.15469] The Janus Interface: How Fine-Tuning in Large Language Models Amplifies the Privacy Risks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15469>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 07:52:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Siyuan Tang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 24 Oct 2023 02:48:19 UTC (2,233 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 07:52:22 UTC (2,997 KB)
    Xiaoyi Chen, Siyuan Tang, Rui Zhu, Shijun Yan, Lei Jin, Zihao Wang, Liya Su, Zhikun Zhang, XiaoFeng Wang, Haixu Tang

The rapid advancements of large language models (LLMs) have raised public concerns about the privacy leakage of personally identifiable information (PII) within their extensive training datasets. Recent studies have demonstrated that an adversary could extract highly sensitive privacy data from the training data of LLMs with carefully designed prompts. However, these attacks suffer from the model's tendency to hallucinate and catastrophic forgetting (CF) in the pre-training stage, rendering the veracity of divulged PIIs negligible. In our research, we propose a novel attack, Janus, which exploits the fine-tuning interface to recover forgotten PIIs from the pre-training data in LLMs. We formalize the privacy leakage problem in LLMs and explain why forgotten PIIs can be recovered through empirical analysis on open-source language models. Based upon these insights, we evaluate the performance of Janus on both open-source language models and two latest LLMs, i.e., GPT-3.5-Turbo and LLaMA-2-7b. Our experiment results show that Janus amplifies the privacy risks by over 10 times in comparison with the baseline and significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art privacy extraction attacks including prefix attacks and in-context learning (ICL). Furthermore, our analysis validates that existing fine-tuning APIs provided by OpenAI and Azure AI Studio are susceptible to our Janus attack, allowing an adversary to conduct such an attack at a low cost.

------------

`[2405.03998] Sketch Then Generate: Providing Incremental User Feedback and Guiding LLM Code Generation through Language-Oriented Code Sketches <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.03998>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 10 May 2024 22:11:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Chen Zhu-Tian [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 7 May 2024 04:21:07 UTC (2,055 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 10 May 2024 22:11:24 UTC (2,055 KB)
    Chen Zhu-Tian and Zeyu Xiong and Xiaoshuo Yao and Elena Glassman

Crafting effective prompts for code generation or editing with Large Language Models (LLMs) is not an easy task. Particularly, the absence of immediate, stable feedback during prompt crafting hinders effective interaction, as users are left to mentally imagine possible outcomes until the code is generated. In response, we introduce Language-Oriented Code Sketching, an interactive approach that provides instant, incremental feedback in the form of code sketches (i.e., incomplete code outlines) during prompt crafting. This approach converts a prompt into a code sketch by leveraging the inherent linguistic structures within the prompt and applying classic natural language processing techniques. The sketch then serves as an intermediate placeholder that not only previews the intended code structure but also guides the LLM towards the desired code, thereby enhancing human-LLM interaction. We conclude by discussing the approach's applicability and future plans.

------------

`[2401.16445] OMPGPT: A Generative Pre-trained Transformer Model for OpenMP <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16445>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 13 May 2024 16:17:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Le Chen [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 28 Jan 2024 06:06:59 UTC (1,127 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 May 2024 16:17:38 UTC (1,441 KB)
    Le Chen, Arijit Bhattacharjee, Nesreen Ahmed, Niranjan Hasabnis, Gal Oren, Vy Vo, Ali Jannesari

Large language models (LLMs)such as ChatGPT have significantly advanced the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP). This trend led to the development of code-based large language models such as StarCoder, WizardCoder, and CodeLlama, which are trained extensively on vast repositories of code and programming languages. While the generic abilities of these code LLMs are useful for many programmers in tasks like code generation, the area of high-performance computing (HPC) has a narrower set of requirements that make a smaller and more domain-specific model a smarter choice. This paper presents OMPGPT, a novel domain-specific model meticulously designed to harness the inherent strengths of language models for OpenMP pragma generation. Furthermore, we leverage prompt engineering techniques from the NLP domain to create Chain-of-OMP, an innovative strategy designed to enhance OMPGPT's effectiveness. Our extensive evaluations demonstrate that OMPGPT outperforms existing large language models specialized in OpenMP tasks and maintains a notably smaller size, aligning it more closely with the typical hardware constraints of HPC environments. We consider our contribution as a pivotal bridge, connecting the advantage of language models with the specific demands of HPC tasks.

------------

`[2404.13268] Multi-Cell Decoder and Mutual Learning for Table Structure and Character Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13268>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 12 May 2024 15:11:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Takaya Kawakatsu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 20 Apr 2024 04:30:38 UTC (72 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 12 May 2024 15:11:25 UTC (74 KB)
    Takaya Kawakatsu

Extracting table contents from documents such as scientific papers and financial reports and converting them into a format that can be processed by large language models is an important task in knowledge information processing. End-to-end approaches, which recognize not only table structure but also cell contents, achieved performance comparable to state-of-the-art models using external character recognition systems, and have potential for further improvements. In addition, these models can now recognize long tables with hundreds of cells by introducing local attention. However, the models recognize table structure in one direction from the header to the footer, and cell content recognition is performed independently for each cell, so there is no opportunity to retrieve useful information from the neighbor cells. In this paper, we propose a multi-cell content decoder and bidirectional mutual learning mechanism to improve the end-to-end approach. The effectiveness is demonstrated on two large datasets, and the experimental results show comparable performance to state-of-the-art models, even for long tables with large numbers of cells.

------------

