240503
========

----------
Survey (1)
----------

`[2405.00711] Fake Artificial Intelligence Generated Contents (FAIGC): A Survey of Theories, Detection Methods, and Opportunities <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00711>`__

::

    Thu, 25 Apr 2024 04:44:09 GMT
    Xiaomin Yu, Yezhaohui Wang, Yanfang Chen, Zhen Tao, Dinghao Xi, Shichao Song, Simin Niu

In recent years, generative artificial intelligence models, represented by Large Language Models (LLMs) and Diffusion Models (DMs), have revolutionized content production methods. These artificial intelligence-generated content (AIGC) have become deeply embedded in various aspects of daily life and work, spanning texts, images, videos, and audio. The authenticity of AI-generated content is progressively enhancing, approaching human-level creative standards.
However, these technologies have also led to the emergence of Fake Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (FAIGC), posing new challenges in distinguishing genuine information. It is crucial to recognize that AIGC technology is akin to a double-edged sword; its potent generative capabilities, while beneficial, also pose risks for the creation and dissemination of FAIGC. In this survey, We propose a new taxonomy that provides a more comprehensive breakdown of the space of FAIGC methods today. Next, we explore the modalities and generative technologies of FAIGC, categorized under AI-generated disinformation and AI-generated misinformation. From various perspectives, we then introduce FAIGC detection methods, including Deceptive FAIGC Detection, Deepfake Detection, and Hallucination-based FAIGC Detection. Finally, we discuss outstanding challenges and promising areas for future research.

------------

-------------
Benchmark (1)
-------------

`[2405.00716] Large Language Models in Healthcare: A Comprehensive Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00716>`__

::

    Thu, 25 Apr 2024 15:51:06 GMT
    Andrew Liu, Hongjian Zhou, Yining Hua, Omid Rohanian, Lei Clifton, David A. Clifton

The adoption of large language models (LLMs) to assist clinicians has attracted remarkable attention. Existing works mainly adopt the close-ended question-answering task with answer options for evaluation. However, in real clinical settings, many clinical decisions, such as treatment recommendations, involve answering open-ended questions without pre-set options. Meanwhile, existing studies mainly use accuracy to assess model performance. In this paper, we comprehensively benchmark diverse LLMs in healthcare, to clearly understand their strengths and weaknesses. Our benchmark contains seven tasks and thirteen datasets across medical language generation, understanding, and reasoning. We conduct a detailed evaluation of the existing sixteen LLMs in healthcare under both zero-shot and few-shot (i.e., 1,3,5-shot) learning settings. We report the results on five metrics (i.e. matching, faithfulness, comprehensiveness, generalizability, and robustness) that are critical in achieving trust from clinical users. We further invite medical experts to conduct human evaluation.

------------

--------------
Accelerate (5)
--------------

`[2405.01121] Efficient Data Generation for Source-grounded Information-seeking Dialogs: A Use Case for Meeting Transcripts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01121>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 09:35:06 GMT
    Lotem Golany, Filippo Galgani, Maya Mamo, Nimrod Parasol, Omer Vandsburger, Nadav Bar, Ido Dagan

Existing methods for creating source-grounded information-seeking dialog datasets are often costly and hard to implement due to their sole reliance on human annotators. We propose combining large language models (LLMs) prompting with human expertise for more efficient and reliable data generation. Instead of the labor-intensive Wizard-of-Oz (WOZ) method, where two annotators generate a dialog from scratch, role-playing agent and user, we use LLM generation to simulate the two roles. Annotators then verify the output and augment it with attribution data. We demonstrate our method by constructing MISeD -- Meeting Information Seeking Dialogs dataset -- the first information-seeking dialog dataset focused on meeting transcripts. Models finetuned with MISeD demonstrate superior performance on our test set, as well as on a novel fully-manual WOZ test set and an existing query-based summarization benchmark, suggesting the utility of our approach.

------------

`[2405.01481] NeMo-Aligner: Scalable Toolkit for Efficient Model Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01481>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:13:40 GMT
    Gerald Shen, Zhilin Wang, Olivier Delalleau, Jiaqi Zeng, Yi Dong, Daniel Egert, Shengyang Sun, Jimmy Zhang, Sahil Jain, Ali Taghibakhshi, Markel Sanz Ausin, Ashwath Aithal, Oleksii Kuchaiev

Aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) with human values and preferences is essential for making them helpful and safe. However, building efficient tools to perform alignment can be challenging, especially for the largest and most competent LLMs which often contain tens or hundreds of billions of parameters.
We create NeMo-Aligner, a toolkit for model alignment that can efficiently scale to using hundreds of GPUs for training. NeMo-Aligner comes with highly optimized and scalable implementations for major paradigms of model alignment such as: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), SteerLM, and Self-Play Fine-Tuning (SPIN). Additionally, our toolkit supports running most of the alignment techniques in a Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) setting. NeMo-Aligner is designed for extensibility, allowing support for other alignment techniques with minimal effort. It is open-sourced with Apache 2.0 License and we invite community contributions at https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Aligner

------------

`[2405.00738] HLSTransform: Energy-Efficient Llama 2 Inference on FPGAs Via High Level Synthesis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00738>`__

::

    Mon, 29 Apr 2024 21:26:06 GMT
    Andy He, Darren Key, Mason Bulling, Andrew Chang, Skyler Shapiro, Everett Lee

Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) have become the leading hardware accelerator for deep learning applications and are used widely in training and inference of transformers; transformers have achieved state-of-the-art performance in many areas of machine learning and are especially used in most modern Large Language Models (LLMs). However, GPUs require large amounts of energy, which poses environmental concerns, demands high operational costs, and causes GPUs to be unsuitable for edge computing. We develop an accelerator for transformers, namely, Llama 2, an open-source state-of-the-art LLM, using high level synthesis (HLS) on Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs). HLS allows us to rapidly prototype FPGA designs without writing code at the register-transfer level (RTL). We name our method HLSTransform, and the FPGA designs we synthesize with HLS achieve up to a 12.75x reduction and 8.25x reduction in energy used per token on the Xilinx Virtex UltraScale+ VU9P FPGA compared to an Intel Xeon Broadwell E5-2686 v4 CPU and NVIDIA RTX 3090 GPU respectively, while increasing inference speeds by up to 2.46x compared to CPU and maintaining 0.53x the speed of an RTX 3090 GPU despite the GPU's 4 times higher base clock rate. With the lack of existing open-source FPGA accelerators for transformers, we open-source our code and document our steps for synthesis. We hope this work will serve as a step in democratizing the use of FPGAs in transformer inference and inspire research into energy-efficient inference methods as a whole. The code can be found on https://github.com/HLSTransform/submission.

------------

`[2405.01413] MiniGPT-3D: Efficiently Aligning 3D Point Clouds with Large Language Models using 2D Priors <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01413>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 16:04:30 GMT
    Yuan Tang, Xu Han, Xianzhi Li, Qiao Yu, Yixue Hao, Long Hu, Min Chen

Large 2D vision-language models (2D-LLMs) have gained significant attention by bridging Large Language Models (LLMs) with images using a simple projector.
Inspired by their success, large 3D point cloud-language models (3D-LLMs) also integrate point clouds into LLMs. However, directly aligning point clouds with LLM requires expensive training costs, typically in hundreds of GPU-hours on A100, which hinders the development of 3D-LLMs. In this paper, we introduce MiniGPT-3D, an efficient and powerful 3D-LLM that achieves multiple SOTA results while training for only 27 hours on one RTX 3090. Specifically, we propose to align 3D point clouds with LLMs using 2D priors from 2D-LLMs, which can leverage the similarity between 2D and 3D visual information. We introduce a novel four-stage training strategy for modality alignment in a cascaded way, and a mixture of query experts module to adaptively aggregate features with high efficiency. Moreover, we utilize parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods LoRA and Norm fine-tuning, resulting in only 47.8M learnable parameters, which is up to 260x fewer than existing methods. Extensive experiments show that MiniGPT-3D achieves SOTA on 3D object classification and captioning tasks, with significantly cheaper training costs. Notably, MiniGPT-3D gains an 8.12 increase on GPT-4 evaluation score for the challenging object captioning task compared to ShapeLLM-13B, while the latter costs 160 total GPU-hours on 8 A800.
We are the first to explore the efficient 3D-LLM, offering new insights to the community. Code and weights are available at https://github.com/TangYuan96/MiniGPT-3D.

------------

`[2404.14619] OpenELM: An Efficient Language Model Family with Open Training and Inference Framework <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14619>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 00:30:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Sachin Mehta [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 Apr 2024 23:12:03 UTC (72 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 00:30:57 UTC (72 KB)
    Sachin Mehta and Mohammad Hossein Sekhavat and Qingqing Cao and Maxwell Horton and Yanzi Jin and Chenfan Sun and Iman Mirzadeh and Mahyar Najibi and Dmitry Belenko and Peter Zatloukal and Mohammad Rastegari

The reproducibility and transparency of large language models are crucial for advancing open research, ensuring the trustworthiness of results, and enabling investigations into data and model biases, as well as potential risks. To this end, we release OpenELM, a state-of-the-art open language model. OpenELM uses a layer-wise scaling strategy to efficiently allocate parameters within each layer of the transformer model, leading to enhanced accuracy. For example, with a parameter budget of approximately one billion parameters, OpenELM exhibits a 2.36% improvement in accuracy compared to OLMo while requiring $2\times$ fewer pre-training tokens.
Diverging from prior practices that only provide model weights and inference code, and pre-train on private datasets, our release includes the complete framework for training and evaluation of the language model on publicly available datasets, including training logs, multiple checkpoints, and pre-training configurations. We also release code to convert models to MLX library for inference and fine-tuning on Apple devices. This comprehensive release aims to empower and strengthen the open research community, paving the way for future open research endeavors.
Our source code along with pre-trained model weights and training recipes is available at \url{this https URL}. Additionally, \model models can be found on HuggingFace at: \url{this https URL}.

------------

-------------
Reasoning (3)
-------------

`[2405.00718] Can't say cant? Measuring and Reasoning of Dark Jargons in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00718>`__

::

    Thu, 25 Apr 2024 17:25:53 GMT
    Xu Ji, Jianyi Zhang, Ziyin Zhou, Zhangchi Zhao, Qianqian Qiao, Kaiying Han, Md Imran Hossen and Xiali Hei

Ensuring the resilience of Large Language Models (LLMs) against malicious exploitation is paramount, with recent focus on mitigating offensive responses.
Yet, the understanding of cant or dark jargon remains unexplored. This paper introduces a domain-specific Cant dataset and CantCounter evaluation framework, employing Fine-Tuning, Co-Tuning, Data-Diffusion, and Data-Analysis stages.
Experiments reveal LLMs, including ChatGPT, are susceptible to cant bypassing filters, with varying recognition accuracy influenced by question types, setups, and prompt clues. Updated models exhibit higher acceptance rates for cant queries. Moreover, LLM reactions differ across domains, e.g., reluctance to engage in racism versus LGBT topics. These findings underscore LLMs' understanding of cant and reflect training data characteristics and vendor approaches to sensitive topics. Additionally, we assess LLMs' ability to demonstrate reasoning capabilities. Access to our datasets and code is available at https://github.com/cistineup/CantCounter.

------------

`[2405.01345] The Power of Question Translation Training in Multilingual Reasoning: Broadened Scope and Deepened Insights <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01345>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 14:49:50 GMT
    Wenhao Zhu, Shujian Huang, Fei Yuan, Cheng Chen, Jiajun Chen, Alexandra Birch

Bridging the significant gap between large language model's English and non-English performance presents a great challenge. While some previous studies attempt to mitigate this gap with translated training data, the recently proposed question alignment approach leverages the model's English expertise to improve multilingual performance with minimum usage of expensive, error-prone translation. In this paper, we explore how broadly this method can be applied by examining its effects in reasoning with executable code and reasoning with common sense. We also explore how to apply this approach efficiently to extremely large language models using proxy-tuning. Experiment results on multilingual reasoning benchmarks mGSM, mSVAMP and xCSQA demonstrate that the question alignment approach can be used to boost multilingual performance across diverse reasoning scenarios, model families, and sizes. For instance, when applied to the LLaMA2 models, our method brings an average accuracy improvements of 12.2% on mGSM even with the 70B model. To understand the mechanism of its success, we analyze representation space, chain-of-thought and translation data scales, which reveals how question translation training strengthens language alignment within LLMs and shapes their working patterns.

------------

`[2404.03134] Robust Pronoun Fidelity with English LLMs: Are they Reasoning, Repeating, or Just Biased? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03134>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 21:35:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Vagrant Gautam [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 4 Apr 2024 01:07:14 UTC (4,283 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 1 May 2024 21:35:00 UTC (327 KB)
    Vagrant Gautam, Eileen Bingert, Dawei Zhu, Anne Lauscher, Dietrich Klakow

Robust, faithful and harm-free pronoun use for individuals is an important goal for language models as their use increases, but prior work tends to study only one or two of these characteristics at a time. To measure progress towards the combined goal, we introduce the task of pronoun fidelity: given a context introducing a co-referring entity and pronoun, the task is to reuse the correct pronoun later. We present RUFF, a carefully-designed dataset of over 5 million instances to measure robust pronoun fidelity in English, and we evaluate 37 popular large language models across architectures (encoder-only, decoder-only and encoder-decoder) and scales (11M-70B parameters). When an individual is introduced with a pronoun, models can mostly faithfully reuse this pronoun in the next sentence, but they are significantly worse with she/her/her, singular they and neopronouns. Moreover, models are easily distracted by non-adversarial sentences discussing other people; even one additional sentence with a distractor pronoun causes accuracy to drop on average by 34%. Our results show that pronoun fidelity is neither robust, nor due to reasoning, in a simple, naturalistic setting where humans achieve nearly 100% accuracy. We encourage researchers to bridge the gaps we find and to carefully evaluate reasoning in settings where superficial repetition might inflate perceptions of model performance.

------------

-----------
ToolUse (4)
-----------

`[2405.00709] Evaluating Tool-Augmented Agents in Remote Sensing Platforms <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00709>`__

::

    Tue, 23 Apr 2024 20:37:24 GMT
    Simranjit Singh, Michael Fore, Dimitrios Stamoulis

Tool-augmented Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities in remote sensing (RS) applications. However, existing benchmarks assume question-answering input templates over predefined image-text data pairs. These standalone instructions neglect the intricacies of realistic user-grounded tasks. Consider a geospatial analyst: they zoom in a map area, they draw a region over which to collect satellite imagery, and they succinctly ask "Detect all objects here". Where is `here`, if it is not explicitly hardcoded in the image-text template, but instead is implied by the system state, e.g., the live map positioning? To bridge this gap, we present GeoLLM-QA, a benchmark designed to capture long sequences of verbal, visual, and click-based actions on a real UI platform. Through in-depth evaluation of state-of-the-art LLMs over a diverse set of 1,000 tasks, we offer insights towards stronger agents for RS applications.

------------

`[2405.00972] CACTUS: Chemistry Agent Connecting Tool-Usage to Science <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00972>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 03:20:08 GMT
    Andrew D. McNaughton, Gautham Ramalaxmi, Agustin Kruel, Carter R. Knutson, Rohith A. Varikoti, Neeraj Kumar

Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable potential in various domains, but they often lack the ability to access and reason over domain-specific knowledge and tools. In this paper, we introduced CACTUS (Chemistry Agent Connecting Tool-Usage to Science), an LLM-based agent that integrates cheminformatics tools to enable advanced reasoning and problem-solving in chemistry and molecular discovery. We evaluate the performance of CACTUS using a diverse set of open-source LLMs, including Gemma-7b, Falcon-7b, MPT-7b, Llama2-7b, and Mistral-7b, on a benchmark of thousands of chemistry questions. Our results demonstrate that CACTUS significantly outperforms baseline LLMs, with the Gemma-7b and Mistral-7b models achieving the highest accuracy regardless of the prompting strategy used. Moreover, we explore the impact of domain-specific prompting and hardware configurations on model performance, highlighting the importance of prompt engineering and the potential for deploying smaller models on consumer-grade hardware without significant loss in accuracy. By combining the cognitive capabilities of open-source LLMs with domain-specific tools, CACTUS can assist researchers in tasks such as molecular property prediction, similarity searching, and drug-likeness assessment. Furthermore, CACTUS represents a significant milestone in the field of cheminformatics, offering an adaptable tool for researchers engaged in chemistry and molecular discovery. By integrating the strengths of open-source LLMs with domain-specific tools, CACTUS has the potential to accelerate scientific advancement and unlock new frontiers in the exploration of novel, effective, and safe therapeutic candidates, catalysts, and materials. Moreover, CACTUS's ability to integrate with automated experimentation platforms and make data-driven decisions in real time opens up new possibilities for autonomous discovery.

------------

`[2405.01481] NeMo-Aligner: Scalable Toolkit for Efficient Model Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01481>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:13:40 GMT
    Gerald Shen, Zhilin Wang, Olivier Delalleau, Jiaqi Zeng, Yi Dong, Daniel Egert, Shengyang Sun, Jimmy Zhang, Sahil Jain, Ali Taghibakhshi, Markel Sanz Ausin, Ashwath Aithal, Oleksii Kuchaiev

Aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) with human values and preferences is essential for making them helpful and safe. However, building efficient tools to perform alignment can be challenging, especially for the largest and most competent LLMs which often contain tens or hundreds of billions of parameters.
We create NeMo-Aligner, a toolkit for model alignment that can efficiently scale to using hundreds of GPUs for training. NeMo-Aligner comes with highly optimized and scalable implementations for major paradigms of model alignment such as: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), SteerLM, and Self-Play Fine-Tuning (SPIN). Additionally, our toolkit supports running most of the alignment techniques in a Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) setting. NeMo-Aligner is designed for extensibility, allowing support for other alignment techniques with minimal effort. It is open-sourced with Apache 2.0 License and we invite community contributions at https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Aligner

------------

`[2405.01097] Silencing the Risk, Not the Whistle: A Semi-automated Text Sanitization Tool for Mitigating the Risk of Whistleblower Re-Identification <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01097>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 08:52:29 GMT
    Dimitri Staufer, Frank Pallas, Bettina Berendt

Whistleblowing is essential for ensuring transparency and accountability in both public and private sectors. However, (potential) whistleblowers often fear or face retaliation, even when reporting anonymously. The specific content of their disclosures and their distinct writing style may re-identify them as the source. Legal measures, such as the EU WBD, are limited in their scope and effectiveness. Therefore, computational methods to prevent re-identification are important complementary tools for encouraging whistleblowers to come forward. However, current text sanitization tools follow a one-size-fits-all approach and take an overly limited view of anonymity. They aim to mitigate identification risk by replacing typical high-risk words (such as person names and other NE labels) and combinations thereof with placeholders. Such an approach, however, is inadequate for the whistleblowing scenario since it neglects further re-identification potential in textual features, including writing style. Therefore, we propose, implement, and evaluate a novel classification and mitigation strategy for rewriting texts that involves the whistleblower in the assessment of the risk and utility. Our prototypical tool semi-automatically evaluates risk at the word/term level and applies risk-adapted anonymization techniques to produce a grammatically disjointed yet appropriately sanitized text. We then use a LLM that we fine-tuned for paraphrasing to render this text coherent and style-neutral. We evaluate our tool's effectiveness using court cases from the ECHR and excerpts from a real-world whistleblower testimony and measure the protection against authorship attribution (AA) attacks and utility loss statistically using the popular IMDb62 movie reviews dataset. Our method can significantly reduce AA accuracy from 98.81% to 31.22%, while preserving up to 73.1% of the original content's semantics.

------------

-----------------------
Retrieval-Augmented (4)
-----------------------

`[2405.01310] Overcoming LLM Challenges using RAG-Driven Precision in Coffee Leaf Disease Remediation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01310>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 14:19:25 GMT
    Dr. Selva Kumar S, Afifah Khan Mohammed Ajmal Khan, Imadh Ajaz Banday, Manikantha Gada, Vibha Venkatesh Shanbhag

This research introduces an innovative AI-driven precision agriculture system, leveraging YOLOv8 for disease identification and Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) for context-aware diagnosis. Focused on addressing the challenges of diseases affecting the coffee production sector in Karnataka, The system integrates sophisticated object detection techniques with language models to address the inherent constraints associated with Large Language Models (LLMs). Our methodology not only tackles the issue of hallucinations in LLMs, but also introduces dynamic disease identification and remediation strategies. Real-time monitoring, collaborative dataset expansion, and organizational involvement ensure the system's adaptability in diverse agricultural settings. The effect of the suggested system extends beyond automation, aiming to secure food supplies, protect livelihoods, and promote eco-friendly farming practices. By facilitating precise disease identification, the system contributes to sustainable and environmentally conscious agriculture, reducing reliance on pesticides. Looking to the future, the project envisions continuous development in RAG-integrated object detection systems, emphasizing scalability, reliability, and usability. This research strives to be a beacon for positive change in agriculture, aligning with global efforts toward sustainable and technologically enhanced food production.

------------

`[2404.19232] GRAMMAR: Grounded and Modular Methodology for Assessment of Domain-Specific Retrieval-Augmented Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19232>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 05:32:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Xinzhe Li [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 30 Apr 2024 03:29:30 UTC (8,420 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 05:32:23 UTC (8,420 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 9 May 2024 01:46:48 UTC (8,420 KB)
    Xinzhe Li, Ming Liu and Shang Gao

Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) systems have been actively studied and deployed across various industries to query on domain-specific knowledge base. However, evaluating these systems presents unique challenges due to the scarcity of domain-specific queries and corresponding ground truths, as well as a lack of systematic approaches to diagnosing the cause of failure cases -- whether they stem from knowledge deficits or issues related to system robustness. To address these challenges, we introduce GRAMMAR (GRounded And Modular Methodology for Assessment of RAG), an evaluation framework comprising two key elements: 1) a data generation process that leverages relational databases and LLMs to efficiently produce scalable query-answer pairs. This method facilitates the separation of query logic from linguistic variations for enhanced debugging capabilities; and 2) an evaluation framework that differentiates knowledge gaps from robustness and enables the identification of defective modules. Our empirical results underscore the limitations of current reference-free evaluation approaches and the reliability of GRAMMAR to accurately identify model vulnerabilities.

------------

`[2405.00465] BiomedRAG: A Retrieval Augmented Large Language Model for Biomedicine <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00465>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 16:45:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Mingchen Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 1 May 2024 12:01:39 UTC (3,033 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 16:45:07 UTC (3,033 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 3 May 2024 01:12:08 UTC (3,033 KB)
    Mingchen Li, Halil Kilicoglu, Hua Xu, Rui Zhang

Large Language Models (LLMs) have swiftly emerged as vital resources for different applications in the biomedical and healthcare domains; however, these models encounter issues such as generating inaccurate information or hallucinations. Retrieval-augmented generation provided a solution for these models to update knowledge and enhance their performance. In contrast to previous retrieval-augmented LMs, which utilize specialized cross-attention mechanisms to help LLM encode retrieved text, BiomedRAG adopts a simpler approach by directly inputting the retrieved chunk-based documents into the LLM. This straightforward design is easily applicable to existing retrieval and language models, effectively bypassing noise information in retrieved documents, particularly in noise-intensive tasks. Moreover, we demonstrate the potential for utilizing the LLM to supervise the retrieval model in the biomedical domain, enabling it to retrieve the document that assists the LM in improving its predictions. Our experiments reveal that with the tuned scorer,\textsc{ BiomedRAG} attains superior performance across 5 biomedical NLP tasks, encompassing information extraction (triple extraction, relation extraction), text classification, link prediction, and question-answering, leveraging over 9 datasets. For instance, in the triple extraction task, \textsc{BiomedRAG} outperforms other triple extraction systems with micro-F1 scores of 81.42 and 88.83 on GIT and ChemProt corpora, respectively.

------------

`[2311.04694] Evaluating Generative Ad Hoc Information Retrieval <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04694>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 08:50:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Lukas Gienapp [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 8 Nov 2023 14:05:00 UTC (654 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 08:50:42 UTC (491 KB)
    Lukas Gienapp, Harrisen Scells, Niklas Deckers, Janek Bevendorff, Shuai Wang, Johannes Kiesel, Shahbaz Syed, Maik Fr\"obe, Guido Zuccon, Benno Stein, Matthias Hagen, Martin Potthast

Recent advances in large language models have enabled the development of viable generative retrieval systems. Instead of a traditional document ranking, many generative retrieval systems directly return a grounded generated text as an answer to an information need expressed as a query or question. Quantifying the utility of the textual responses is essential for appropriately evaluating such generative ad hoc retrieval. Yet, the established evaluation methodology for ranking-based retrieval is not suited for reliable, repeatable, and reproducible evaluation of generated answers. In this paper, we survey the relevant literature from the fields of information retrieval and natural language processing, we identify search tasks and system architectures in generative retrieval, we develop a corresponding user model, and we study its operationalization. Our analysis provides a foundation and new insights for the evaluation of generative retrieval systems, focusing on ad hoc retrieval.

------------

---------
Agent (4)
---------

`[2405.00709] Evaluating Tool-Augmented Agents in Remote Sensing Platforms <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00709>`__

::

    Tue, 23 Apr 2024 20:37:24 GMT
    Simranjit Singh, Michael Fore, Dimitrios Stamoulis

Tool-augmented Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities in remote sensing (RS) applications. However, existing benchmarks assume question-answering input templates over predefined image-text data pairs. These standalone instructions neglect the intricacies of realistic user-grounded tasks. Consider a geospatial analyst: they zoom in a map area, they draw a region over which to collect satellite imagery, and they succinctly ask "Detect all objects here". Where is `here`, if it is not explicitly hardcoded in the image-text template, but instead is implied by the system state, e.g., the live map positioning? To bridge this gap, we present GeoLLM-QA, a benchmark designed to capture long sequences of verbal, visual, and click-based actions on a real UI platform. Through in-depth evaluation of state-of-the-art LLMs over a diverse set of 1,000 tasks, we offer insights towards stronger agents for RS applications.

------------

`[2405.00801] "Ask Me Anything": How Comcast Uses LLMs to Assist Agents in Real Time <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00801>`__

::

    Wed, 1 May 2024 18:31:36 GMT
    Scott Rome, Tianwen Chen, Raphael Tang, Luwei Zhou, Ferhan Ture

Customer service is how companies interface with their customers. It can contribute heavily towards the overall customer satisfaction. However, high-quality service can become expensive, creating an incentive to make it as cost efficient as possible and prompting most companies to utilize AI-powered assistants, or "chat bots". On the other hand, human-to-human interaction is still desired by customers, especially when it comes to complex scenarios such as disputes and sensitive topics like bill payment.
This raises the bar for customer service agents. They need to accurately understand the customer's question or concern, identify a solution that is acceptable yet feasible (and within the company's policy), all while handling multiple conversations at once.
In this work, we introduce "Ask Me Anything" (AMA) as an add-on feature to an agent-facing customer service interface. AMA allows agents to ask questions to a large language model (LLM) on demand, as they are handling customer conversations -- the LLM provides accurate responses in real-time, reducing the amount of context switching the agent needs. In our internal experiments, we find that agents using AMA versus a traditional search experience spend approximately 10% fewer seconds per conversation containing a search, translating to millions of dollars of savings annually. Agents that used the AMA feature provided positive feedback nearly 80% of the time, demonstrating its usefulness as an AI-assisted feature for customer care.

------------

`[2405.00972] CACTUS: Chemistry Agent Connecting Tool-Usage to Science <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00972>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 03:20:08 GMT
    Andrew D. McNaughton, Gautham Ramalaxmi, Agustin Kruel, Carter R. Knutson, Rohith A. Varikoti, Neeraj Kumar

Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable potential in various domains, but they often lack the ability to access and reason over domain-specific knowledge and tools. In this paper, we introduced CACTUS (Chemistry Agent Connecting Tool-Usage to Science), an LLM-based agent that integrates cheminformatics tools to enable advanced reasoning and problem-solving in chemistry and molecular discovery. We evaluate the performance of CACTUS using a diverse set of open-source LLMs, including Gemma-7b, Falcon-7b, MPT-7b, Llama2-7b, and Mistral-7b, on a benchmark of thousands of chemistry questions. Our results demonstrate that CACTUS significantly outperforms baseline LLMs, with the Gemma-7b and Mistral-7b models achieving the highest accuracy regardless of the prompting strategy used. Moreover, we explore the impact of domain-specific prompting and hardware configurations on model performance, highlighting the importance of prompt engineering and the potential for deploying smaller models on consumer-grade hardware without significant loss in accuracy. By combining the cognitive capabilities of open-source LLMs with domain-specific tools, CACTUS can assist researchers in tasks such as molecular property prediction, similarity searching, and drug-likeness assessment. Furthermore, CACTUS represents a significant milestone in the field of cheminformatics, offering an adaptable tool for researchers engaged in chemistry and molecular discovery. By integrating the strengths of open-source LLMs with domain-specific tools, CACTUS has the potential to accelerate scientific advancement and unlock new frontiers in the exploration of novel, effective, and safe therapeutic candidates, catalysts, and materials. Moreover, CACTUS's ability to integrate with automated experimentation platforms and make data-driven decisions in real time opens up new possibilities for autonomous discovery.

------------

`[2405.01392] LLMSat: A Large Language Model-Based Goal-Oriented Agent for Autonomous Space Exploration <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01392>`__

::

    Sat, 13 Apr 2024 03:33:17 GMT
    David Maranto

As spacecraft journey further from Earth with more complex missions, systems of greater autonomy and onboard intelligence are called for. Reducing reliance on human-based mission control becomes increasingly critical if we are to increase our rate of solar-system-wide exploration. Recent work has explored AI-based goal-oriented systems to increase the level of autonomy in mission execution. These systems make use of symbolic reasoning managers to make inferences from the state of a spacecraft and a handcrafted knowledge base, enabling autonomous generation of tasks and re-planning. Such systems have proven to be successful in controlled cases, but they are difficult to implement as they require human-crafted ontological models to allow the spacecraft to understand the world. Reinforcement learning has been applied to train robotic agents to pursue a goal. A new architecture for autonomy is called for. This work explores the application of Large Language Models (LLMs) as the high-level control system of a spacecraft. Using a systems engineering approach, this work presents the design and development of an agentic spacecraft controller by leveraging an LLM as a reasoning engine, to evaluate the utility of such an architecture in achieving higher levels of spacecraft autonomy. A series of deep space mission scenarios simulated within the popular game engine Kerbal Space Program (KSP) are used as case studies to evaluate the implementation against the requirements. It is shown the reasoning and planning abilities of present-day LLMs do not scale well as the complexity of a mission increases, but this can be alleviated with adequate prompting frameworks and strategic selection of the agent's level of authority over the host spacecraft.
This research evaluates the potential of LLMs in augmenting autonomous decision-making systems for future robotic space applications.

------------

----------
Other (59)
----------

`[2405.00843] Can a Hallucinating Model help in Reducing Human "Hallucination"? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00843>`__

::

    Wed, 1 May 2024 20:10:44 GMT
    Sowmya S Sundaram, Balaji Alwar

The prevalence of unwarranted beliefs, spanning pseudoscience, logical fallacies, and conspiracy theories, presents substantial societal hurdles and the risk of disseminating misinformation. Utilizing established psychometric assessments, this study explores the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) vis-a-vis the average human in detecting prevalent logical pitfalls. We undertake a philosophical inquiry, juxtaposing the rationality of humans against that of LLMs. Furthermore, we propose methodologies for harnessing LLMs to counter misconceptions, drawing upon psychological models of persuasion such as cognitive dissonance theory and elaboration likelihood theory. Through this endeavor, we highlight the potential of LLMs as personalized misinformation debunking agents.

------------

`[2405.00981] Bayesian Optimization with LLM-Based Acquisition Functions for Natural Language Preference Elicitation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00981>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 03:35:21 GMT
    David Eric Austin, Anton Korikov, Armin Toroghi, Scott Sanner

Designing preference elicitation (PE) methodologies that can quickly ascertain a user's top item preferences in a cold-start setting is a key challenge for building effective and personalized conversational recommendation (ConvRec) systems. While large language models (LLMs) constitute a novel technology that enables fully natural language (NL) PE dialogues, we hypothesize that monolithic LLM NL-PE approaches lack the multi-turn, decision-theoretic reasoning required to effectively balance the NL exploration and exploitation of user preferences towards an arbitrary item set. In contrast, traditional Bayesian optimization PE methods define theoretically optimal PE strategies, but fail to use NL item descriptions or generate NL queries, unrealistically assuming users can express preferences with direct item ratings and comparisons. To overcome the limitations of both approaches, we formulate NL-PE in a Bayesian Optimization (BO) framework that seeks to generate NL queries which actively elicit natural language feedback to reduce uncertainty over item utilities to identify the best recommendation. We demonstrate our framework in a novel NL-PE algorithm, PEBOL, which uses Natural Language Inference (NLI) between user preference utterances and NL item descriptions to maintain preference beliefs and BO strategies such as Thompson Sampling (TS) and Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) to guide LLM query generation.
We numerically evaluate our methods in controlled experiments, finding that PEBOL achieves up to 131% improvement in MAP@10 after 10 turns of cold start NL-PE dialogue compared to monolithic GPT-3.5, despite relying on a much smaller 400M parameter NLI model for preference inference.

------------

`[2405.01453] Creative Problem Solving in Large Language and Vision Models -- What Would it Take? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01453>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 16:36:26 GMT
    Lakshmi Nair, Evana Gizzi, Jivko Sinapov

In this paper, we discuss approaches for integrating Computational Creativity (CC) with research in large language and vision models (LLVMs) to address a key limitation of these models, i.e., creative problem solving. We present preliminary experiments showing how CC principles can be applied to address this limitation through augmented prompting. With this work, we hope to foster discussions of Computational Creativity in the context of ML algorithms for creative problem solving in LLVMs. Our code is at: https://github.com/lnairGT/creative-problem-solving-LLMs

------------

`[2405.00705] SHED: Shapley-Based Automated Dataset Refinement for Instruction Fine-Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00705>`__

::

    Tue, 23 Apr 2024 04:56:48 GMT
    Yexiao He and Ziyao Wang and Zheyu Shen and Guoheng Sun and Yucong Dai and Yongkai Wu and Hongyi Wang and Ang Li

The pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) can be adapted for many downstream tasks and tailored to align with human preferences through fine-tuning. Recent studies have discovered that LLMs can achieve desirable performance with only a small amount of high-quality data, suggesting that a large amount of the data in these extensive datasets is redundant or even harmful. Identifying high-quality data from vast datasets to curate small yet effective datasets has emerged as a critical challenge. In this paper, we introduce SHED, an automated dataset refinement framework based on Shapley value for instruction fine-tuning. SHED eliminates the need for human intervention or the use of commercial LLMs. Moreover, the datasets curated through SHED exhibit transferability, indicating they can be reused across different LLMs with consistently high performance. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the datasets curated by SHED. The results demonstrate SHED's superiority over state-of-the-art methods across various tasks and LLMs; notably, datasets comprising only 10% of the original data selected by SHED achieve performance comparable to or surpassing that of the full datasets.

------------

`[2405.00708] Interactive Analysis of LLMs using Meaningful Counterfactuals <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00708>`__

::

    Tue, 23 Apr 2024 19:57:03 GMT
    Furui Cheng, Vil\'em Zouhar, Robin Shing Moon Chan, Daniel F\"urst, Hendrik Strobelt, Mennatallah El-Assady

Counterfactual examples are useful for exploring the decision boundaries of machine learning models and determining feature attributions. How can we apply counterfactual-based methods to analyze and explain LLMs? We identify the following key challenges. First, the generated textual counterfactuals should be meaningful and readable to users and thus can be mentally compared to draw conclusions. Second, to make the solution scalable to long-form text, users should be equipped with tools to create batches of counterfactuals from perturbations at various granularity levels and interactively analyze the results. In this paper, we tackle the above challenges and contribute 1) a novel algorithm for generating batches of complete and meaningful textual counterfactuals by removing and replacing text segments in different granularities, and 2) LLM Analyzer, an interactive visualization tool to help users understand an LLM's behaviors by interactively inspecting and aggregating meaningful counterfactuals. We evaluate the proposed algorithm by the grammatical correctness of its generated counterfactuals using 1,000 samples from medical, legal, finance, education, and news datasets. In our experiments, 97.2% of the counterfactuals are grammatically correct. Through a use case, user studies, and feedback from experts, we demonstrate the usefulness and usability of the proposed interactive visualization tool.

------------

`[2405.00710] Homonym Sense Disambiguation in the Georgian Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00710>`__

::

    Wed, 24 Apr 2024 21:48:43 GMT
    Davit Melikidze, Alexander Gamkrelidze

This research proposes a novel approach to the Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) task in the Georgian language, based on supervised fine-tuning of a pre-trained Large Language Model (LLM) on a dataset formed by filtering the Georgian Common Crawls corpus. The dataset is used to train a classifier for words with multiple senses. Additionally, we present experimental results of using LSTM for WSD. Accurately disambiguating homonyms is crucial in natural language processing. Georgian, an agglutinative language belonging to the Kartvelian language family, presents unique challenges in this context. The aim of this paper is to highlight the specific problems concerning homonym disambiguation in the Georgian language and to present our approach to solving them. The techniques discussed in the article achieve 95% accuracy for predicting lexical meanings of homonyms using a hand-classified dataset of over 7500 sentences.

------------

`[2405.00715] Towards Adapting Open-Source Large Language Models for Expert-Level Clinical Note Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00715>`__

::

    Thu, 25 Apr 2024 15:34:53 GMT
    Hanyin Wang, Chufan Gao, Bolun Liu, Qiping Xu, Guleid Hussein, Mohamad El Labban, Kingsley Iheasirim, Hariprasad Korsapati, Jimeng Sun

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promising capabilities in handling clinical text summarization tasks. In this study, we demonstrate that a small open-source LLM can be effectively trained to generate high-quality clinical notes from outpatient patient-doctor dialogues. We achieve this through a comprehensive domain- and task-specific adaptation process for the LLaMA-2 13 billion parameter model. This process incorporates continued pre-training, supervised fine-tuning, and reinforcement learning from both AI and human feedback. We introduced an enhanced approach, termed DistillDirect, for performing on-policy reinforcement learning with Gemini Pro serving as the teacher model. Our resulting model, LLaMA-Clinic, is capable of generating clinical notes that are comparable in quality to those authored by physicians.
In a blinded physician reader study, the majority (90.4%) of individual evaluations rated the notes generated by LLaMA-Clinic as "acceptable" or higher across all three criteria: real-world readiness, completeness, and accuracy.
Notably, in the more challenging "Assessment and Plan" section, LLaMA-Clinic scored higher (4.2/5) in real-world readiness compared to physician-authored notes (4.1/5). Additionally, we identified caveats in public clinical note datasets, such as ACI-BENCH. We highlight key considerations for future clinical note-generation tasks, emphasizing the importance of pre-defining a best-practice note format. Overall, our research demonstrates the potential and feasibility of training smaller, open-source LLMs to assist with clinical documentation, capitalizing on healthcare institutions' access to patient records and domain expertise. We have made our newly created synthetic clinic dialogue-note dataset and the physician feedback dataset publicly available to foster future research in this field.

------------

`[2405.00722] LLMs for Generating and Evaluating Counterfactuals: A Comprehensive Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00722>`__

::

    Fri, 26 Apr 2024 11:57:21 GMT
    Van Bach Nguyen, Paul Youssef, J\"org Schl\"otterer, Christin Seifert

As NLP models become more complex, understanding their decisions becomes more crucial. Counterfactuals (CFs), where minimal changes to inputs flip a model's prediction, offer a way to explain these models. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in NLP tasks, their efficacy in generating high-quality CFs remains uncertain. This work fills this gap by investigating how well LLMs generate CFs for two NLU tasks. We conduct a comprehensive comparison of several common LLMs, and evaluate their CFs, assessing both intrinsic metrics, and the impact of these CFs on data augmentation. Moreover, we analyze differences between human and LLM-generated CFs, providing insights for future research directions. Our results show that LLMs generate fluent CFs, but struggle to keep the induced changes minimal.
Generating CFs for Sentiment Analysis (SA) is less challenging than NLI where LLMs show weaknesses in generating CFs that flip the original label. This also reflects on the data augmentation performance, where we observe a large gap between augmenting with human and LLMs CFs. Furthermore, we evaluate LLMs' ability to assess CFs in a mislabelled data setting, and show that they have a strong bias towards agreeing with the provided labels. GPT4 is more robust against this bias and its scores correlate well with automatic metrics. Our findings reveal several limitations and point to potential future work directions.

------------

`[2405.00728] Evaluating the Application of ChatGPT in Outpatient Triage Guidance: A Comparative Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00728>`__

::

    Sat, 27 Apr 2024 04:12:02 GMT
    Dou Liu, Ying Han, Xiandi Wang, Xiaomei Tan, Di Liu, Guangwu Qian, Kang Li, Dan Pu, and Rong Yin

The integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in healthcare presents a transformative potential for enhancing operational efficiency and health outcomes. Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have shown their capabilities in supporting medical decision-making. Embedding LLMs in medical systems is becoming a promising trend in healthcare development. The potential of ChatGPT to address the triage problem in emergency departments has been examined, while few studies have explored its application in outpatient departments. With a focus on streamlining workflows and enhancing efficiency for outpatient triage, this study specifically aims to evaluate the consistency of responses provided by ChatGPT in outpatient guidance, including both within-version response analysis and between-version comparisons. For within-version, the results indicate that the internal response consistency for ChatGPT-4.0 is significantly higher than ChatGPT-3.5 (p=0.03) and both have a moderate consistency (71.2% for 4.0 and 59.6% for 3.5) in their top recommendation. However, the between-version consistency is relatively low (mean consistency score=1.43/3, median=1), indicating few recommendations match between the two versions. Also, only 50% top recommendations match perfectly in the comparisons. Interestingly, ChatGPT-3.5 responses are more likely to be complete than those from ChatGPT-4.0 (p=0.02), suggesting possible differences in information processing and response generation between the two versions. The findings offer insights into AI-assisted outpatient operations, while also facilitating the exploration of potentials and limitations of LLMs in healthcare utilization. Future research may focus on carefully optimizing LLMs and AI integration in healthcare systems based on ergonomic and human factors principles, precisely aligning with the specific needs of effective outpatient triage.

------------

`[2405.00732] LoRA Land: 310 Fine-tuned LLMs that Rival GPT-4, A Technical Report <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00732>`__

::

    Mon, 29 Apr 2024 04:01:45 GMT
    Justin Zhao, Timothy Wang, Wael Abid, Geoffrey Angus, Arnav Garg, Jeffery Kinnison, Alex Sherstinsky, Piero Molino, Travis Addair, Devvret Rishi

Low Rank Adaptation (LoRA) has emerged as one of the most widely adopted methods for Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) of Large Language Models (LLMs). LoRA reduces the number of trainable parameters and memory usage while achieving comparable performance to full fine-tuning. We aim to assess the viability of training and serving LLMs fine-tuned with LoRA in real-world applications. First, we measure the quality of LLMs fine-tuned with quantized low rank adapters across 10 base models and 31 tasks for a total of 310 models.
We find that 4-bit LoRA fine-tuned models outperform base models by 34 points and GPT-4 by 10 points on average. Second, we investigate the most effective base models for fine-tuning and assess the correlative and predictive capacities of task complexity heuristics in forecasting the outcomes of fine-tuning. Finally, we evaluate the latency and concurrency capabilities of LoRAX, an open-source Multi-LoRA inference server that facilitates the deployment of multiple LoRA fine-tuned models on a single GPU using shared base model weights and dynamic adapter loading. LoRAX powers LoRA Land, a web application that hosts 25 LoRA fine-tuned Mistral-7B LLMs on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU with 80GB memory. LoRA Land highlights the quality and cost-effectiveness of employing multiple specialized LLMs over a single, general-purpose LLM.

------------

`[2405.00828] WIBA: What Is Being Argued? A Comprehensive Approach to Argument Mining <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00828>`__

::

    Wed, 1 May 2024 19:31:13 GMT
    Arman Irani, Ju Yeon Park, Kevin Esterling, Michalis Faloutsos

We propose WIBA, a novel framework and suite of methods that enable the comprehensive understanding of "What Is Being Argued" across contexts. Our approach develops a comprehensive framework that detects: (a) the existence, (b) the topic, and (c) the stance of an argument, correctly accounting for the logical dependence among the three tasks. Our algorithm leverages the fine-tuning and prompt-engineering of Large Language Models. We evaluate our approach and show that it performs well in all the three capabilities. First, we develop and release an Argument Detection model that can classify a piece of text as an argument with an F1 score between 79% and 86% on three different benchmark datasets. Second, we release a language model that can identify the topic being argued in a sentence, be it implicit or explicit, with an average similarity score of 71%, outperforming current naive methods by nearly 40%.
Finally, we develop a method for Argument Stance Classification, and evaluate the capability of our approach, showing it achieves a classification F1 score between 71% and 78% across three diverse benchmark datasets. Our evaluation demonstrates that WIBA allows the comprehensive understanding of What Is Being Argued in large corpora across diverse contexts, which is of core interest to many applications in linguistics, communication, and social and computer science. To facilitate accessibility to the advancements outlined in this work, we release WIBA as a free open access platform (wiba.dev).

------------

`[2405.00864] Math Multiple Choice Question Generation via Human-Large Language Model Collaboration <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00864>`__

::

    Wed, 1 May 2024 20:53:13 GMT
    Jaewook Lee, Digory Smith, Simon Woodhead, Andrew Lan

Multiple choice questions (MCQs) are a popular method for evaluating students' knowledge due to their efficiency in administration and grading.
Crafting high-quality math MCQs is a labor-intensive process that requires educators to formulate precise stems and plausible distractors. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have sparked interest in automating MCQ creation, but challenges persist in ensuring mathematical accuracy and addressing student errors. This paper introduces a prototype tool designed to facilitate collaboration between LLMs and educators for streamlining the math MCQ generation process. We conduct a pilot study involving math educators to investigate how the tool can help them simplify the process of crafting high-quality math MCQs. We found that while LLMs can generate well-formulated question stems, their ability to generate distractors that capture common student errors and misconceptions is limited. Nevertheless, a human-AI collaboration has the potential to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of MCQ generation.

------------

`[2405.00970] How Can I Get It Right? Using GPT to Rephrase Incorrect Trainee Responses <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00970>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 03:18:03 GMT
    Jionghao Lin, Zifei Han, Danielle R. Thomas, Ashish Gurung, Shivang Gupta, Vincent Aleven, Kenneth R. Koedinger

One-on-one tutoring is widely acknowledged as an effective instructional method, conditioned on qualified tutors. However, the high demand for qualified tutors remains a challenge, often necessitating the training of novice tutors (i.e., trainees) to ensure effective tutoring. Research suggests that providing timely explanatory feedback can facilitate the training process for trainees.
However, it presents challenges due to the time-consuming nature of assessing trainee performance by human experts. Inspired by the recent advancements of large language models (LLMs), our study employed the GPT-4 model to build an explanatory feedback system. This system identifies trainees' responses in binary form (i.e., correct/incorrect) and automatically provides template-based feedback with responses appropriately rephrased by the GPT-4 model. We conducted our study on 410 responses from trainees across three training lessons: Giving Effective Praise, Reacting to Errors, and Determining What Students Know. Our findings indicate that: 1) using a few-shot approach, the GPT-4 model effectively identifies correct/incorrect trainees' responses from three training lessons with an average F1 score of 0.84 and an AUC score of 0.85; and 2) using the few-shot approach, the GPT-4 model adeptly rephrases incorrect trainees' responses into desired responses, achieving performance comparable to that of human experts.

------------

`[2405.00982] On the Evaluation of Machine-Generated Reports <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00982>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 03:35:23 GMT
    James Mayfield and Eugene Yang and Dawn Lawrie and Sean MacAvaney and Paul McNamee and Douglas W. Oard and Luca Soldaini and Ian Soboroff and Orion Weller and Efsun Kayi and Kate Sanders and Marc Mason and Noah Hibbler

Large Language Models (LLMs) have enabled new ways to satisfy information needs. Although great strides have been made in applying them to settings like document ranking and short-form text generation, they still struggle to compose complete, accurate, and verifiable long-form reports. Reports with these qualities are necessary to satisfy the complex, nuanced, or multi-faceted information needs of users. In this perspective paper, we draw together opinions from industry and academia, and from a variety of related research areas, to present our vision for automatic report generation, and -- critically -- a flexible framework by which such reports can be evaluated. In contrast with other summarization tasks, automatic report generation starts with a detailed description of an information need, stating the necessary background, requirements, and scope of the report. Further, the generated reports should be complete, accurate, and verifiable. These qualities, which are desirable -- if not required -- in many analytic report-writing settings, require rethinking how to build and evaluate systems that exhibit these qualities. To foster new efforts in building these systems, we present an evaluation framework that draws on ideas found in various evaluations. To test completeness and accuracy, the framework uses nuggets of information, expressed as questions and answers, that need to be part of any high-quality generated report. Additionally, evaluation of citations that map claims made in the report to their source documents ensures verifiability.

------------

`[2405.00988] Context-Aware Clustering using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00988>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 03:50:31 GMT
    Sindhu Tipirneni, Ravinarayana Adkathimar, Nurendra Choudhary, Gaurush Hiranandani, Rana Ali Amjad, Vassilis N. Ioannidis, Changhe Yuan, Chandan K. Reddy

Despite the remarkable success of Large Language Models (LLMs) in text understanding and generation, their potential for text clustering tasks remains underexplored. We observed that powerful closed-source LLMs provide good quality clusterings of entity sets but are not scalable due to the massive compute power required and the associated costs. Thus, we propose CACTUS (Context-Aware ClusTering with aUgmented triplet losS), a systematic approach that leverages open-source LLMs for efficient and effective supervised clustering of entity subsets, particularly focusing on text-based entities.
Existing text clustering methods fail to effectively capture the context provided by the entity subset. Moreover, though there are several language modeling based approaches for clustering, very few are designed for the task of supervised clustering. This paper introduces a novel approach towards clustering entity subsets using LLMs by capturing context via a scalable inter-entity attention mechanism. We propose a novel augmented triplet loss function tailored for supervised clustering, which addresses the inherent challenges of directly applying the triplet loss to this problem. Furthermore, we introduce a self-supervised clustering task based on text augmentation techniques to improve the generalization of our model. For evaluation, we collect ground truth clusterings from a closed-source LLM and transfer this knowledge to an open-source LLM under the supervised clustering framework, allowing a faster and cheaper open-source model to perform the same task.
Experiments on various e-commerce query and product clustering datasets demonstrate that our proposed approach significantly outperforms existing unsupervised and supervised baselines under various external clustering evaluation metrics.

------------

`[2405.01159] TartuNLP at EvaLatin 2024: Emotion Polarity Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01159>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 10:28:52 GMT
    Aleksei Dorkin and Kairit Sirts

This paper presents the TartuNLP team submission to EvaLatin 2024 shared task of the emotion polarity detection for historical Latin texts. Our system relies on two distinct approaches to annotating training data for supervised learning: 1) creating heuristics-based labels by adopting the polarity lexicon provided by the organizers and 2) generating labels with GPT4. We employed parameter efficient fine-tuning using the adapters framework and experimented with both monolingual and cross-lingual knowledge transfer for training language and task adapters. Our submission with the LLM-generated labels achieved the overall first place in the emotion polarity detection task. Our results show that LLM-based annotations show promising results on texts in Latin.

------------

`[2405.01249] Prompt engineering paradigms for medical applications: scoping review and recommendations for better practices <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01249>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 12:52:23 GMT
    Jamil Zaghir, Marco Naguib, Mina Bjelogrlic, Aur\'elie N\'ev\'eol, Xavier Tannier, Christian Lovis

Prompt engineering is crucial for harnessing the potential of large language models (LLMs), especially in the medical domain where specialized terminology and phrasing is used. However, the efficacy of prompt engineering in the medical domain remains to be explored. In this work, 114 recent studies (2022-2024) applying prompt engineering in medicine, covering prompt learning (PL), prompt tuning (PT), and prompt design (PD) are reviewed. PD is the most prevalent (78 articles). In 12 papers, PD, PL, and PT terms were used interchangeably. ChatGPT is the most commonly used LLM, with seven papers using it for processing sensitive clinical data. Chain-of-Thought emerges as the most common prompt engineering technique. While PL and PT articles typically provide a baseline for evaluating prompt-based approaches, 64% of PD studies lack non-prompt-related baselines. We provide tables and figures summarizing existing work, and reporting recommendations to guide future research contributions.

------------

`[2405.01299] The Effectiveness of LLMs as Annotators: A Comparative Overview and Empirical Analysis of Direct Representation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01299>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 14:00:22 GMT
    Maja Pavlovic, Massimo Poesio

Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful support tools across various natural language tasks and a range of application domains. Recent studies focus on exploring their capabilities for data annotation. This paper provides a comparative overview of twelve studies investigating the potential of LLMs in labelling data. While the models demonstrate promising cost and time-saving benefits, there exist considerable limitations, such as representativeness, bias, sensitivity to prompt variations and English language preference. Leveraging insights from these studies, our empirical analysis further examines the alignment between human and GPT-generated opinion distributions across four subjective datasets. In contrast to the studies examining representation, our methodology directly obtains the opinion distribution from GPT. Our analysis thereby supports the minority of studies that are considering diverse perspectives when evaluating data annotation tasks and highlights the need for further research in this direction.

------------

`[2405.01359] GAIA: A General AI Assistant for Intelligent Accelerator Operations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01359>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 15:06:18 GMT
    Frank Mayet

Large-scale machines like particle accelerators are usually run by a team of experienced operators. In case of a particle accelerator, these operators possess suitable background knowledge on both accelerator physics and the technology comprising the machine. Due to the complexity of the machine, particular subsystems of the machine are taken care of by experts, who the operators can turn to. In this work the reasoning and action (ReAct) prompting paradigm is used to couple an open-weights large language model (LLM) with a high-level machine control system framework and other tools, e.g. the electronic logbook or machine design documentation. By doing so, a multi-expert retrieval augmented generation (RAG) system is implemented, which assists operators in knowledge retrieval tasks, interacts with the machine directly if needed, or writes high level control system scripts. This consolidation of expert knowledge and machine interaction can simplify and speed up machine operation tasks for both new and experienced human operators.

------------

`[2405.01379] Verification and Refinement of Natural Language Explanations through LLM-Symbolic Theorem Proving <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01379>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 15:20:01 GMT
    Xin Quan, Marco Valentino, Louise A. Dennis, Andr\'e Freitas

Natural language explanations have become a proxy for evaluating explainable and multi-step Natural Language Inference (NLI) models. However, assessing the validity of explanations for NLI is challenging as it typically involves the crowd-sourcing of apposite datasets, a process that is time-consuming and prone to logical errors. To address existing limitations, this paper investigates the verification and refinement of natural language explanations through the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Theorem Provers (TPs).
Specifically, we present a neuro-symbolic framework, named Explanation-Refiner, that augments a TP with LLMs to generate and formalise explanatory sentences and suggest potential inference strategies for NLI. In turn, the TP is employed to provide formal guarantees on the logical validity of the explanations and to generate feedback for subsequent improvements. We demonstrate how Explanation-Refiner can be jointly used to evaluate explanatory reasoning, autoformalisation, and error correction mechanisms of state-of-the-art LLMs as well as to automatically enhance the quality of human-annotated explanations of variable complexity in different domains.

------------

`[2405.01490] Controllable Text Generation in the Instruction-Tuning Era <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01490>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:24:30 GMT
    Dhananjay Ashok, Barnabas Poczos

While most research on controllable text generation has focused on steering base Language Models, the emerging instruction-tuning and prompting paradigm offers an alternate approach to controllability. We compile and release ConGenBench, a testbed of 17 different controllable generation tasks, using a subset of it to benchmark the performance of 9 different baselines and methods on Instruction-tuned Language Models. To our surprise, we find that prompting-based approaches outperform controllable text generation methods on most datasets and tasks, highlighting a need for research on controllable text generation with Instruction-tuned Language Models in specific. Prompt-based approaches match human performance on most stylistic tasks while lagging on structural tasks, foregrounding a need to study more varied constraints and more challenging stylistic tasks. To facilitate such research, we provide an algorithm that uses only a task dataset and a Large Language Model with in-context capabilities to automatically generate a constraint dataset. This method eliminates the fields dependence on pre-curated constraint datasets, hence vastly expanding the range of constraints that can be studied in the future.

------------

`[2405.01502] Analyzing the Role of Semantic Representations in the Era of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01502>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:32:59 GMT
    Zhijing Jin, Yuen Chen, Fernando Gonzalez, Jiarui Liu, Jiayi Zhang, Julian Michael, Bernhard Sch\"olkopf, Mona Diab

Traditionally, natural language processing (NLP) models often use a rich set of features created by linguistic expertise, such as semantic representations.
However, in the era of large language models (LLMs), more and more tasks are turned into generic, end-to-end sequence generation problems. In this paper, we investigate the question: what is the role of semantic representations in the era of LLMs? Specifically, we investigate the effect of Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) across five diverse NLP tasks. We propose an AMR-driven chain-of-thought prompting method, which we call AMRCoT, and find that it generally hurts performance more than it helps. To investigate what AMR may have to offer on these tasks, we conduct a series of analysis experiments. We find that it is difficult to predict which input examples AMR may help or hurt on, but errors tend to arise with multi-word expressions, named entities, and in the final inference step where the LLM must connect its reasoning over the AMR to its prediction. We recommend focusing on these areas for future work in semantic representations for LLMs. Our code: https://github.com/causalNLP/amr_llm.

------------

`[2405.01525] FLAME: Factuality-Aware Alignment for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01525>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:54:54 GMT
    Sheng-Chieh Lin, Luyu Gao, Barlas Oguz, Wenhan Xiong, Jimmy Lin, Wen-tau Yih, Xilun Chen

Alignment is a standard procedure to fine-tune pre-trained large language models (LLMs) to follow natural language instructions and serve as helpful AI assistants. We have observed, however, that the conventional alignment process fails to enhance the factual accuracy of LLMs, and often leads to the generation of more false facts (i.e. hallucination). In this paper, we study how to make the LLM alignment process more factual, by first identifying factors that lead to hallucination in both alignment steps:\ supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning (RL). In particular, we find that training the LLM on new knowledge or unfamiliar texts can encourage hallucination. This makes SFT less factual as it trains on human labeled data that may be novel to the LLM. Furthermore, reward functions used in standard RL can also encourage hallucination, because it guides the LLM to provide more helpful responses on a diverse set of instructions, often preferring longer and more detailed responses. Based on these observations, we propose factuality-aware alignment, comprised of factuality-aware SFT and factuality-aware RL through direct preference optimization. Experiments show that our proposed factuality-aware alignment guides LLMs to output more factual responses while maintaining instruction-following capability.

------------

`[2405.00747] Soft Preference Optimization: Aligning Language Models to Expert Distributions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00747>`__

::

    Tue, 30 Apr 2024 19:48:55 GMT
    Arsalan Sharifnassab, Sina Ghiassian, Saber Salehkaleybar, Surya Kanoria, Dale Schuurmans

We propose Soft Preference Optimization (SPO), a method for aligning generative models, such as Large Language Models (LLMs), with human preferences, without the need for a reward model. SPO optimizes model outputs directly over a preference dataset through a natural loss function that integrates preference loss with a regularization term across the model's entire output distribution rather than limiting it to the preference dataset. Although SPO does not require the assumption of an existing underlying reward model, we demonstrate that, under the Bradley-Terry (BT) model assumption, it converges to a softmax of scaled rewards, with the distribution's "softness" adjustable via the softmax exponent, an algorithm parameter. We showcase SPO's methodology, its theoretical foundation, and its comparative advantages in simplicity, computational efficiency, and alignment precision.

------------

`[2405.00949] The Role of Model Architecture and Scale in Predicting Molecular Properties: Insights from Fine-Tuning RoBERTa, BART, and LLaMA <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00949>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 02:20:12 GMT
    Lee Youngmin, Lang S.I.D. Andrew, Cai Duoduo, Wheat R. Stephen

This study introduces a systematic framework to compare the efficacy of Large Language Models (LLMs) for fine-tuning across various cheminformatics tasks.
Employing a uniform training methodology, we assessed three well-known models-RoBERTa, BART, and LLaMA-on their ability to predict molecular properties using the Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System (SMILES) as a universal molecular representation format. Our comparative analysis involved pre-training 18 configurations of these models, with varying parameter sizes and dataset scales, followed by fine-tuning them on six benchmarking tasks from DeepChem. We maintained consistent training environments across models to ensure reliable comparisons. This approach allowed us to assess the influence of model type, size, and training dataset size on model performance.
Specifically, we found that LLaMA-based models generally offered the lowest validation loss, suggesting their superior adaptability across tasks and scales. However, we observed that absolute validation loss is not a definitive indicator of model performance - contradicts previous research - at least for fine-tuning tasks: instead, model size plays a crucial role. Through rigorous replication and validation, involving multiple training and fine-tuning cycles, our study not only delineates the strengths and limitations of each model type but also provides a robust methodology for selecting the most suitable LLM for specific cheminformatics applications. This research underscores the importance of considering model architecture and dataset characteristics in deploying AI for molecular property prediction, paving the way for more informed and effective utilization of AI in drug discovery and related fields.

------------

`[2405.01229] Boosting Jailbreak Attack with Momentum <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01229>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 12:18:14 GMT
    Yihao Zhang, Zeming Wei

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success across diverse tasks, yet they remain vulnerable to adversarial attacks, notably the well-documented \textit{jailbreak} attack. Recently, the Greedy Coordinate Gradient (GCG) attack has demonstrated efficacy in exploiting this vulnerability by optimizing adversarial prompts through a combination of gradient heuristics and greedy search. However, the efficiency of this attack has become a bottleneck in the attacking process. To mitigate this limitation, in this paper we rethink the generation of adversarial prompts through an optimization lens, aiming to stabilize the optimization process and harness more heuristic insights from previous iterations. Specifically, we introduce the \textbf{M}omentum \textbf{A}ccelerated G\textbf{C}G (\textbf{MAC}) attack, which incorporates a momentum term into the gradient heuristic. Experimental results showcase the notable enhancement achieved by MAP in gradient-based attacks on aligned language models. Our code is available at https://github.com/weizeming/momentum-attack-llm.

------------

`[2405.01534] Plan-Seq-Learn: Language Model Guided RL for Solving Long Horizon Robotics Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01534>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:59:31 GMT
    Murtaza Dalal, Tarun Chiruvolu, Devendra Chaplot, Ruslan Salakhutdinov

Large Language Models (LLMs) have been shown to be capable of performing high-level planning for long-horizon robotics tasks, yet existing methods require access to a pre-defined skill library (e.g. picking, placing, pulling, pushing, navigating). However, LLM planning does not address how to design or learn those behaviors, which remains challenging particularly in long-horizon settings. Furthermore, for many tasks of interest, the robot needs to be able to adjust its behavior in a fine-grained manner, requiring the agent to be capable of modifying low-level control actions. Can we instead use the internet-scale knowledge from LLMs for high-level policies, guiding reinforcement learning (RL) policies to efficiently solve robotic control tasks online without requiring a pre-determined set of skills? In this paper, we propose Plan-Seq-Learn (PSL): a modular approach that uses motion planning to bridge the gap between abstract language and learned low-level control for solving long-horizon robotics tasks from scratch. We demonstrate that PSL achieves state-of-the-art results on over 25 challenging robotics tasks with up to 10 stages. PSL solves long-horizon tasks from raw visual input spanning four benchmarks at success rates of over 85%, out-performing language-based, classical, and end-to-end approaches. Video results and code at https://mihdalal.github.io/planseqlearn/

------------

`[2405.00790] SCAR: Scheduling Multi-Model AI Workloads on Heterogeneous Multi-Chiplet Module Accelerators <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00790>`__

::

    Wed, 1 May 2024 18:02:25 GMT
    Mohanad Odema, Luke Chen, Hyoukjun Kwon, Mohammad Abdullah Al Faruque

Emerging multi-model workloads with heavy models like recent large language models significantly increased the compute and memory demands on hardware. To address such increasing demands, designing a scalable hardware architecture became a key problem. Among recent solutions, the 2.5D silicon interposer multi-chip module (MCM)-based AI accelerator has been actively explored as a promising scalable solution due to their significant benefits in the low engineering cost and composability. However, previous MCM accelerators are based on homogeneous architectures with fixed dataflow, which encounter major challenges from highly heterogeneous multi-model workloads due to their limited workload adaptivity. Therefore, in this work, we explore the opportunity in the heterogeneous dataflow MCM AI accelerators. We identify the scheduling of multi-model workload on heterogeneous dataflow MCM AI accelerator is an important and challenging problem due to its significance and scale, which reaches O(10^18) scale even for a single model case on 6x6 chiplets. We develop a set of heuristics to navigate the huge scheduling space and codify them into a scheduler with advanced techniques such as inter-chiplet pipelining. Our evaluation on ten multi-model workload scenarios for datacenter multitenancy and AR/VR use-cases has shown the efficacy of our approach, achieving on average 35.3% and 31.4% less energy-delay product (EDP) for the respective applications settings compared to homogeneous baselines.

------------

`[2405.00899] Characterising the Creative Process in Humans and Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00899>`__

::

    Wed, 1 May 2024 23:06:46 GMT
    Surabhi S. Nath, Peter Dayan and Claire Stevenson

Large language models appear quite creative, often performing on par with the average human on creative tasks. However, research on LLM creativity has focused solely on \textit{products}, with little attention on the creative \textit{process}. Process analyses of human creativity often require hand-coded categories or exploit response times, which do not apply to LLMs. We provide an automated method to characterise how humans and LLMs explore semantic spaces on the Alternate Uses Task, and contrast with behaviour in a Verbal Fluency Task.
We use sentence embeddings to identify response categories and compute semantic similarities, which we use to generate jump profiles. Our results corroborate earlier work in humans reporting both persistent (deep search in few semantic spaces) and flexible (broad search across multiple semantic spaces) pathways to creativity, where both pathways lead to similar creativity scores. LLMs were found to be biased towards either persistent or flexible paths, that varied across tasks. Though LLMs as a population match human profiles, their relationship with creativity is different, where the more flexible models score higher on creativity. Our dataset and scripts are available on \href{https://github.com/surabhisnath/Creative_Process}{GitHub}.

------------

`[2405.01419] Natural Language to Verilog: Design of a Recurrent Spiking Neural Network using Large Language Models and ChatGPT <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01419>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 16:08:08 GMT
    Paola Vitolo, George Psaltakis, Michael Tomlinson, Gian Domenico Licciardo, and Andreas G. Andreou

This paper investigates the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) for automating the generation of hardware description code, aiming to explore their potential in supporting and enhancing the development of efficient neuromorphic computing architectures. Building on our prior work, we employ OpenAI's ChatGPT4 and natural language prompts to synthesize a RTL Verilog module of a programmable recurrent spiking neural network, while also generating test benches to assess the system's correctness. The resultant design was validated in three case studies, the exclusive OR,the IRIS flower classification and the MNIST hand-written digit classification, achieving accuracies of up to 96.6%.
To verify its synthesizability and implementability, the design was prototyped on a field-programmable gate array and implemented on SkyWater 130 nm technology by using an open-source electronic design automation flow.
Additionally, we have submitted it to Tiny Tapeout 6 chip fabrication program to further evaluate the system on-chip performance in the future.

------------

`[2405.01509] Learnable Linguistic Watermarks for Tracing Model Extraction Attacks on Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01509>`__

::

    Sun, 28 Apr 2024 14:45:53 GMT
    Minhao Bai, Kaiyi Pang, Yongfeng Huang

In the rapidly evolving domain of artificial intelligence, safeguarding the intellectual property of Large Language Models (LLMs) is increasingly crucial.
Current watermarking techniques against model extraction attacks, which rely on signal insertion in model logits or post-processing of generated text, remain largely heuristic. We propose a novel method for embedding learnable linguistic watermarks in LLMs, aimed at tracing and preventing model extraction attacks.
Our approach subtly modifies the LLM's output distribution by introducing controlled noise into token frequency distributions, embedding an statistically identifiable controllable watermark.We leverage statistical hypothesis testing and information theory, particularly focusing on Kullback-Leibler Divergence, to differentiate between original and modified distributions effectively. Our watermarking method strikes a delicate well balance between robustness and output quality, maintaining low false positive/negative rates and preserving the LLM's original performance.

------------

`[2405.00693] Large Language Models for Human-Robot Interaction: Opportunities and Risks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00693>`__

::

    Tue, 26 Mar 2024 15:36:40 GMT
    Jesse Atuhurra

The tremendous development in large language models (LLM) has led to a new wave of innovations and applications and yielded research results that were initially forecast to take longer. In this work, we tap into these recent developments and present a meta-study about the potential of large language models if deployed in social robots. We place particular emphasis on the applications of social robots: education, healthcare, and entertainment. Before being deployed in social robots, we also study how these language models could be safely trained to ``understand'' societal norms and issues, such as trust, bias, ethics, cognition, and teamwork. We hope this study provides a resourceful guide to other robotics researchers interested in incorporating language models in their robots.

------------

`[2405.00942] LLaVA Finds Free Lunch: Teaching Human Behavior Improves Content Understanding Abilities Of LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00942>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 02:04:01 GMT
    Somesh Singh, Harini S I, Yaman K Singla, Veeky Baths, Rajiv Ratn Shah, Changyou Chen, Balaji Krishnamurthy

Communication is defined as ``Who says what to whom with what effect.'' A message from a communicator generates downstream receiver effects, also known as behavior. Receiver behavior, being a downstream effect of the message, carries rich signals about it. Even after carrying signals about the message, the behavior data is often ignored while training large language models. We show that training LLMs on receiver behavior can actually help improve their content-understanding abilities. Specifically, we show that training LLMs to predict the receiver behavior of likes and comments improves the LLM's performance on a wide variety of downstream content understanding tasks. We show this performance increase over 40 video and image understanding tasks over 23 benchmark datasets across both 0-shot and fine-tuning settings, outperforming many supervised baselines. Moreover, since receiver behavior, such as likes and comments, is collected by default on the internet and does not need any human annotations to be useful, the performance improvement we get after training on this data is essentially free-lunch. We release the receiver behavior cleaned comments and likes of 750k images and videos collected from multiple platforms along with our instruction-tuning data.

------------

`[2405.01521] Transformer-Aided Semantic Communications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01521>`__

::

    Thu, 2 May 2024 17:50:53 GMT
    Matin Mortaheb, Erciyes Karakaya, Mohammad A. Amir Khojastepour, Sennur Ulukus

The transformer structure employed in large language models (LLMs), as a specialized category of deep neural networks (DNNs) featuring attention mechanisms, stands out for their ability to identify and highlight the most relevant aspects of input data. Such a capability is particularly beneficial in addressing a variety of communication challenges, notably in the realm of semantic communication where proper encoding of the relevant data is critical especially in systems with limited bandwidth. In this work, we employ vision transformers specifically for the purpose of compression and compact representation of the input image, with the goal of preserving semantic information throughout the transmission process. Through the use of the attention mechanism inherent in transformers, we create an attention mask. This mask effectively prioritizes critical segments of images for transmission, ensuring that the reconstruction phase focuses on key objects highlighted by the mask. Our methodology significantly improves the quality of semantic communication and optimizes bandwidth usage by encoding different parts of the data in accordance with their semantic information content, thus enhancing overall efficiency. We evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed framework using the TinyImageNet dataset, focusing on both reconstruction quality and accuracy. Our evaluation results demonstrate that our framework successfully preserves semantic information, even when only a fraction of the encoded data is transmitted, according to the intended compression rates.

------------

`[2402.03375] BetterV: Controlled Verilog Generation with Discriminative Guidance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03375>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 09:18:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Zehua Pei [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 3 Feb 2024 08:00:12 UTC (522 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 28 Apr 2024 04:20:31 UTC (508 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 2 May 2024 09:18:21 UTC (508 KB)
    Zehua Pei, Hui-Ling Zhen, Mingxuan Yuan, Yu Huang, Bei Yu

Due to the growing complexity of modern Integrated Circuits (ICs), there is a need for automated circuit design methods. Recent years have seen rising research in hardware design language generation to facilitate the design process. In this work, we propose a Verilog generation framework, BetterV, which fine-tunes the large language models (LLMs) on processed domain-specific datasets and incorporates generative discriminators for guidance on particular design demands. The Verilog modules are collected, filtered and processed from internet to form a clean and abundant dataset. Instruct-tuning methods are specially designed to fine-tune the LLMs to understand the knowledge about Verilog. Furthermore, data are augmented to enrich the training set and also used to train a generative discriminator on particular downstream task, which leads a guidance for the LLMs to optimize the Verilog implementation. BetterV has the ability to generate syntactically and functionally correct Verilog, which can outperform GPT-4 on the VerilogEval benchmark. With the help of task-specific generative discriminator, BetterV can achieve remarkable improvement on various electronic design automation (EDA) downstream tasks, including the netlist node reduction for synthesis and verification runtime reduction with Boolean Satisfiability (SAT) solving.

------------

`[2306.03856] Iterative Translation Refinement with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03856>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 20:44:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Pinzhen Chen [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Jun 2023 16:51:03 UTC (46 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 1 May 2024 20:44:01 UTC (35 KB)
    Pinzhen Chen, Zhicheng Guo, Barry Haddow, Kenneth Heafield

We propose iteratively prompting a large language model to self-correct a translation, with inspiration from their strong language understanding and translation capability as well as a human-like translation approach. Interestingly, multi-turn querying reduces the output's string-based metric scores, but neural metrics suggest comparable or improved quality. Human evaluations indicate better fluency and naturalness compared to initial translations and even human references, all while maintaining quality. Ablation studies underscore the importance of anchoring the refinement to the source and a reasonable seed translation for quality considerations. We also discuss the challenges in evaluation and relation to human performance and translationese.

------------

`[2308.07308] LLM Self Defense: By Self Examination, LLMs Know They Are Being Tricked <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07308>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 14:28:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Mansi Phute [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 14 Aug 2023 17:54:10 UTC (73 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 15 Aug 2023 01:33:35 UTC (72 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 24 Oct 2023 03:38:06 UTC (200 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 2 May 2024 14:28:39 UTC (201 KB)
    Mansi Phute, Alec Helbling, Matthew Hull, ShengYun Peng, Sebastian Szyller, Cory Cornelius and Duen Horng Chau

Large language models (LLMs) are popular for high-quality text generation but can produce harmful content, even when aligned with human values through reinforcement learning. Adversarial prompts can bypass their safety measures. We propose LLM Self Defense, a simple approach to defend against these attacks by having an LLM screen the induced responses. Our method does not require any fine-tuning, input preprocessing, or iterative output generation. Instead, we incorporate the generated content into a pre-defined prompt and employ another instance of an LLM to analyze the text and predict whether it is harmful. We test LLM Self Defense on GPT 3.5 and Llama 2, two of the current most prominent LLMs against various types of attacks, such as forcefully inducing affirmative responses to prompts and prompt engineering attacks. Notably, LLM Self Defense succeeds in reducing the attack success rate to virtually 0 using both GPT 3.5 and Llama 2. The code is publicly available at this https URL

------------

`[2309.11295] CPLLM: Clinical Prediction with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11295>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 16:42:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Ofir Ben Shoham [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Sep 2023 13:24:12 UTC (69 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 16:42:21 UTC (81 KB)
    Ofir Ben Shoham, Nadav Rappoport

We present Clinical Prediction with Large Language Models (CPLLM), a method that involves fine-tuning a pre-trained Large Language Model (LLM) for clinical disease and readmission prediction. We utilized quantization and fine-tuned the LLM using prompts. For diagnosis prediction, we predict whether patients will be diagnosed with a target disease during their next visit or in the subsequent diagnosis, leveraging their historical diagnosis records. We compared our results to various baselines, including RETAIN, and Med-BERT, the current state-of-the-art model for disease prediction using temporal structured EHR data. In addition, We also evaluated CPLLM for patient hospital readmission prediction and compared our method's performance with benchmark baselines. Our experiments have shown that our proposed method, CPLLM, surpasses all the tested models in terms of PR-AUC and ROC-AUC metrics, showing state-of-the-art results for diagnosis prediction and patient hospital readmission prediction. Such a method can be easily implemented and integrated into the clinical process to help care providers estimate the next steps of patients

------------

`[2309.12481] HANS, are you clever? Clever Hans Effect Analysis of Neural Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12481>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 06:36:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Leonardo Ranaldi Mr [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 20:52:18 UTC (6,996 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 06:36:26 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    Leonardo Ranaldi, Fabio Massimo Zanzotto

Instruction-tuned Large Language Models (It-LLMs) have been exhibiting outstanding abilities to reason around cognitive states, intentions, and reactions of all people involved, letting humans guide and comprehend day-to-day social interactions effectively. In fact, several multiple-choice questions (MCQ) benchmarks have been proposed to construct solid assessments of the models' abilities. However, earlier works are demonstrating the presence of inherent "order bias" in It-LLMs, posing challenges to the appropriate evaluation. In this paper, we investigate It-LLMs' resilience abilities towards a series of probing tests using four MCQ benchmarks. Introducing adversarial examples, we show a significant performance gap, mainly when varying the order of the choices, which reveals a selection bias and brings into discussion reasoning abilities. Following a correlation between first positions and model choices due to positional bias, we hypothesized the presence of structural heuristics in the decision-making process of the It-LLMs, strengthened by including significant examples in few-shot scenarios. Finally, by using the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) technique, we elicit the model to reason and mitigate the bias by obtaining more robust models.

------------

`[2402.10466] Large Language Models as Zero-shot Dialogue State Tracker through Function Calling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10466>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 01:44:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Zekun Li [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 06:13:18 UTC (8,006 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 1 May 2024 17:58:35 UTC (8,088 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 2 May 2024 01:44:08 UTC (8,088 KB)
    Zekun Li, Zhiyu Zoey Chen, Mike Ross, Patrick Huber, Seungwhan Moon, Zhaojiang Lin, Xin Luna Dong, Adithya Sagar, Xifeng Yan, Paul A. Crook

Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly prevalent in conversational systems due to their advanced understanding and generative capabilities in general contexts. However, their effectiveness in task-oriented dialogues (TOD), which requires not only response generation but also effective dialogue state tracking (DST) within specific tasks and domains, remains less satisfying. In this work, we propose a novel approach FnCTOD for solving DST with LLMs through function calling. This method improves zero-shot DST, allowing adaptation to diverse domains without extensive data collection or model tuning. Our experimental results demonstrate that our approach achieves exceptional performance with both modestly sized open-source and also proprietary LLMs: with in-context prompting it enables various 7B or 13B parameter models to surpass the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) achieved by ChatGPT, and improves ChatGPT's performance beating the SOTA by 5.6% average joint goal accuracy (JGA). Individual model results for GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 are boosted by 4.8% and 14%, respectively. We also show that by fine-tuning on a small collection of diverse task-oriented dialogues, we can equip modestly sized models, specifically a 13B parameter LLaMA2-Chat model, with function-calling capabilities and DST performance comparable to ChatGPT while maintaining their chat capabilities. We have made the code publicly available at this https URL

------------

`[2402.19471] Loose LIPS Sink Ships: Asking Questions in Battleship with Language-Informed Program Sampling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19471>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 19:00:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Gabriel Grand [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 18:58:15 UTC (728 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 1 May 2024 19:00:06 UTC (728 KB)
    Gabriel Grand, Valerio Pepe, Jacob Andreas, Joshua B. Tenenbaum

Questions combine our mastery of language with our remarkable facility for reasoning about uncertainty. How do people navigate vast hypothesis spaces to pose informative questions given limited cognitive resources? We study these tradeoffs in a classic grounded question-asking task based on the board game Battleship. Our language-informed program sampling (LIPS) model uses large language models (LLMs) to generate natural language questions, translate them into symbolic programs, and evaluate their expected information gain. We find that with a surprisingly modest resource budget, this simple Monte Carlo optimization strategy yields informative questions that mirror human performance across varied Battleship board scenarios. In contrast, LLM-only baselines struggle to ground questions in the board state; notably, GPT-4V provides no improvement over non-visual baselines. Our results illustrate how Bayesian models of question-asking can leverage the statistics of language to capture human priors, while highlighting some shortcomings of pure LLMs as grounded reasoners.

------------

`[2403.16854] An Expert is Worth One Token: Synergizing Multiple Expert LLMs as Generalist via Expert Token Routing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.16854>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 08:57:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Ziwei Chai [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 25 Mar 2024 15:17:05 UTC (449 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 08:57:38 UTC (448 KB)
    Ziwei Chai, Guoyin Wang, Jing Su, Tianjie Zhang, Xuanwen Huang, Xuwu Wang, Jingjing Xu, Jianbo Yuan, Hongxia Yang, Fei Wu, Yang Yang

We present Expert-Token-Routing, a unified generalist framework that facilitates seamless integration of multiple expert LLMs. Our framework represents expert LLMs as special expert tokens within the vocabulary of a meta LLM. The meta LLM can route to an expert LLM like generating new tokens. Expert-Token-Routing not only supports learning the implicit expertise of expert LLMs from existing instruction dataset but also allows for dynamic extension of new expert LLMs in a plug-and-play manner. It also conceals the detailed collaboration process from the user's perspective, facilitating interaction as though it were a singular LLM. Our framework outperforms various existing multi-LLM collaboration paradigms across benchmarks that incorporate six diverse expert domains, demonstrating effectiveness and robustness in building generalist LLM system via synergizing multiple expert LLMs.

------------

`[2404.07921] AmpleGCG: Learning a Universal and Transferable Generative Model of Adversarial Suffixes for Jailbreaking Both Open and Closed LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07921>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 01:08:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Zeyi Liao [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Apr 2024 17:05:50 UTC (2,460 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 01:08:37 UTC (2,292 KB)
    Zeyi Liao, Huan Sun

As large language models (LLMs) become increasingly prevalent and integrated into autonomous systems, ensuring their safety is imperative. Despite significant strides toward safety alignment, recent work GCG~\citep{zou2023universal} proposes a discrete token optimization algorithm and selects the single suffix with the lowest loss to successfully jailbreak aligned LLMs. In this work, we first discuss the drawbacks of solely picking the suffix with the lowest loss during GCG optimization for jailbreaking and uncover the missed successful suffixes during the intermediate steps. Moreover, we utilize those successful suffixes as training data to learn a generative model, named AmpleGCG, which captures the distribution of adversarial suffixes given a harmful query and enables the rapid generation of hundreds of suffixes for any harmful queries in seconds. AmpleGCG achieves near 100\% attack success rate (ASR) on two aligned LLMs (Llama-2-7B-chat and Vicuna-7B), surpassing two strongest attack baselines. More interestingly, AmpleGCG also transfers seamlessly to attack different models, including closed-source LLMs, achieving a 99\% ASR on the latest GPT-3.5. To summarize, our work amplifies the impact of GCG by training a generative model of adversarial suffixes that is universal to any harmful queries and transferable from attacking open-source LLMs to closed-source LLMs. In addition, it can generate 200 adversarial suffixes for one harmful query in only 4 seconds, rendering it more challenging to defend.

------------

`[2404.10830] Fewer Truncations Improve Language Modeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.10830>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 17:10:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Zijian Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 16 Apr 2024 18:08:29 UTC (2,357 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 17:10:44 UTC (2,370 KB)
    Hantian Ding, Zijian Wang, Giovanni Paolini, Varun Kumar, Anoop Deoras, Dan Roth, Stefano Soatto

In large language model training, input documents are typically concatenated together and then split into sequences of equal length to avoid padding tokens. Despite its efficiency, the concatenation approach compromises data integrity -- it inevitably breaks many documents into incomplete pieces, leading to excessive truncations that hinder the model from learning to compose logically coherent and factually consistent content that is grounded on the complete context. To address the issue, we propose Best-fit Packing, a scalable and efficient method that packs documents into training sequences through length-aware combinatorial optimization. Our method completely eliminates unnecessary truncations while retaining the same training efficiency as concatenation. Empirical results from both text and code pre-training show that our method achieves superior performance (e.g., relatively +4.7% on reading comprehension; +16.8% in context following; and +9.2% on program synthesis), and reduces closed-domain hallucination effectively by up to 58.3%.

------------

`[2404.19048] A Framework for Real-time Safeguarding the Text Generation of Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19048>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 19:53:12 GMT
    Submission history From: Ximing Dong [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 29 Apr 2024 18:40:01 UTC (337 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 1 May 2024 19:53:12 UTC (337 KB)
    Ximing Dong, Dayi Lin, Shaowei Wang, Ahmed E. Hassan

Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced natural language processing (NLP) tasks but also pose ethical and societal risks due to their propensity to generate harmful content. To address this, various approaches have been developed to safeguard LLMs from producing unsafe content. However, existing methods have limitations, including the need for training specific control models and proactive intervention during text generation, that lead to quality degradation and increased computational overhead. To mitigate those limitations, we propose LLMSafeGuard, a lightweight framework to safeguard LLM text generation in real-time. LLMSafeGuard integrates an external validator into the beam search algorithm during decoding, rejecting candidates that violate safety constraints while allowing valid ones to proceed. We introduce a similarity based validation approach, simplifying constraint introduction and eliminating the need for control model training. Additionally, LLMSafeGuard employs a context-wise timing selection strategy, intervening LLMs only when necessary. We evaluate LLMSafeGuard on two tasks, detoxification and copyright safeguarding, and demonstrate its superior performance over SOTA baselines. For instance, LLMSafeGuard reduces the average toxic score of. LLM output by 29.7% compared to the best baseline meanwhile preserving similar linguistic quality as natural output in detoxification task. Similarly, in the copyright task, LLMSafeGuard decreases the Longest Common Subsequence (LCS) by 56.2% compared to baselines. Moreover, our context-wise timing selection strategy reduces inference time by at least 24% meanwhile maintaining comparable effectiveness as validating each time step. LLMSafeGuard also offers tunable parameters to balance its effectiveness and efficiency.

------------

`[2405.00289] Adversarial Attacks and Defense for Conversation Entailment Task <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00289>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 03:37:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhenning Yang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 1 May 2024 02:49:18 UTC (8,604 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 03:37:08 UTC (8,604 KB)
    Zhenning Yang, Ryan Krawec, Liang-Yuan Wu

As the deployment of NLP systems in critical applications grows, ensuring the robustness of large language models (LLMs) against adversarial attacks becomes increasingly important. Large language models excel in various NLP tasks but remain vulnerable to low-cost adversarial attacks. Focusing on the domain of conversation entailment, where multi-turn dialogues serve as premises to verify hypotheses, we fine-tune a transformer model to accurately discern the truthfulness of these hypotheses. Adversaries manipulate hypotheses through synonym swapping, aiming to deceive the model into making incorrect predictions. To counteract these attacks, we implemented innovative fine-tuning techniques and introduced an embedding perturbation loss method to significantly bolster the model's robustness. Our findings not only emphasize the importance of defending against adversarial attacks in NLP but also highlight the real-world implications, suggesting that enhancing model robustness is critical for reliable NLP applications.

------------

`[2405.00302] Generating Feedback-Ladders for Logical Errors in Programming using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00302>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 13:04:45 GMT
    Submission history From: Hasnain Heickal [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 1 May 2024 03:52:39 UTC (165 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 13:04:45 UTC (165 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 8 May 2024 20:38:58 UTC (166 KB)
    Hasnain Heickal and Andrew Lan

In feedback generation for logical errors in programming assignments, large language model (LLM)-based methods have shown great promise. These methods ask the LLM to generate feedback given the problem statement and a student's (buggy) submission. There are several issues with these types of methods. First, the generated feedback messages are often too direct in revealing the error in the submission and thus diminish valuable opportunities for the student to learn. Second, they do not consider the student's learning context, i.e., their previous submissions, current knowledge, etc. Third, they are not layered since existing methods use a single, shared prompt for all student submissions. In this paper, we explore using LLMs to generate a "feedback-ladder", i.e., multiple levels of feedback for the same problem-submission pair. We evaluate the quality of the generated feedback-ladder via a user study with students, educators, and researchers. We have observed diminishing effectiveness for higher-level feedback and higher-scoring submissions overall in the study. In practice, our method enables teachers to select an appropriate level of feedback to show to a student based on their personal learning context, or in a progressive manner to go more detailed if a higher-level feedback fails to correct the student's error.

------------

`[2405.00332] A Careful Examination of Large Language Model Performance on Grade School Arithmetic <https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00332>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 17:18:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Hugh Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 1 May 2024 05:52:05 UTC (3,499 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 17:18:51 UTC (3,499 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 3 May 2024 17:53:26 UTC (3,684 KB)
    Hugh Zhang, Jeff Da, Dean Lee, Vaughn Robinson, Catherine Wu, Will Song, Tiffany Zhao, Pranav Raja, Dylan Slack, Qin Lyu, Sean Hendryx, Russell Kaplan, Michele Lunati, Summer Yue

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive success on many benchmarks for mathematical reasoning. However, there is growing concern that some of this performance actually reflects dataset contamination, where data closely resembling benchmark questions leaks into the training data, instead of true reasoning ability. To investigate this claim rigorously, we commission Grade School Math 1000 (GSM1k). GSM1k is designed to mirror the style and complexity of the established GSM8k benchmark, the gold standard for measuring elementary mathematical reasoning. We ensure that the two benchmarks are comparable across important metrics such as human solve rates, number of steps in solution, answer magnitude, and more. When evaluating leading open- and closed-source LLMs on GSM1k, we observe accuracy drops of up to 13%, with several families of models (e.g., Phi and Mistral) showing evidence of systematic overfitting across almost all model sizes. At the same time, many models, especially those on the frontier, (e.g., Gemini/GPT/Claude) show minimal signs of overfitting. Further analysis suggests a positive relationship (Spearman's r^2=0.32) between a model's probability of generating an example from GSM8k and its performance gap between GSM8k and GSM1k, suggesting that many models may have partially memorized GSM8k.

------------

`[2301.10226] A Watermark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.10226>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 22:04:31 GMT
    Submission history From: John Kirchenbauer [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 24 Jan 2023 18:52:59 UTC (3,550 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 27 Jan 2023 18:54:34 UTC (3,620 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Jun 2023 17:50:01 UTC (3,618 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 1 May 2024 22:04:31 UTC (3,825 KB)
    John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, Yuxin Wen, Jonathan Katz, Ian Miers, Tom Goldstein

Potential harms of large language models can be mitigated by watermarking model output, i.e., embedding signals into generated text that are invisible to humans but algorithmically detectable from a short span of tokens. We propose a watermarking framework for proprietary language models. The watermark can be embedded with negligible impact on text quality, and can be detected using an efficient open-source algorithm without access to the language model API or parameters. The watermark works by selecting a randomized set of "green" tokens before a word is generated, and then softly promoting use of green tokens during sampling. We propose a statistical test for detecting the watermark with interpretable p-values, and derive an information-theoretic framework for analyzing the sensitivity of the watermark. We test the watermark using a multi-billion parameter model from the Open Pretrained Transformer (OPT) family, and discuss robustness and security.

------------

`[2306.04634] On the Reliability of Watermarks for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04634>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 21:20:36 GMT
    Submission history From: John Kirchenbauer [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Jun 2023 17:58:48 UTC (14,947 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Jun 2023 17:58:04 UTC (14,993 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 30 Jun 2023 18:18:12 UTC (14,994 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 1 May 2024 21:20:36 UTC (20,657 KB)
    John Kirchenbauer, Jonas Geiping, Yuxin Wen, Manli Shu, Khalid Saifullah, Kezhi Kong, Kasun Fernando, Aniruddha Saha, Micah Goldblum and Tom Goldstein

As LLMs become commonplace, machine-generated text has the potential to flood the internet with spam, social media bots, and valueless content. Watermarking is a simple and effective strategy for mitigating such harms by enabling the detection and documentation of LLM-generated text. Yet a crucial question remains: How reliable is watermarking in realistic settings in the wild? There, watermarked text may be modified to suit a user's needs, or entirely rewritten to avoid detection. We study the robustness of watermarked text after it is re-written by humans, paraphrased by a non-watermarked LLM, or mixed into a longer hand-written document. We find that watermarks remain detectable even after human and machine paraphrasing. While these attacks dilute the strength of the watermark, paraphrases are statistically likely to leak n-grams or even longer fragments of the original text, resulting in high-confidence detections when enough tokens are observed. For example, after strong human paraphrasing the watermark is detectable after observing 800 tokens on average, when setting a 1e-5 false positive rate. We also consider a range of new detection schemes that are sensitive to short spans of watermarked text embedded inside a large document, and we compare the robustness of watermarking to other kinds of detectors.

------------

`[2310.03150] Federated Fine-Tuning of LLMs on the Very Edge: The Good, the Bad, the Ugly <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03150>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 10:12:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Herbert Woisetschlger [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 20:27:20 UTC (304 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 10:12:34 UTC (2,420 KB)
    Herbert Woisetschl\"ager, Alexander Isenko, Shiqiang Wang, Ruben Mayer, Hans-Arno Jacobsen

Large Language Models (LLM) and foundation models are popular as they offer new opportunities for individuals and businesses to improve natural language processing, interact with data, and retrieve information faster. However, training or fine-tuning LLMs requires a vast amount of data, which can be challenging to access due to legal or technical restrictions and may require private computing resources. Federated Learning (FL) is a solution designed to overcome these challenges and expand data access for deep learning applications.
This paper takes a hardware-centric approach to explore how LLMs can be brought to modern edge computing systems. Our study fine-tunes the FLAN-T5 model family, ranging from 80M to 3B parameters, using FL for a text summarization task. We provide a micro-level hardware benchmark, compare the model FLOP utilization to a state-of-the-art data center GPU, and study the network utilization in realistic conditions. Our contribution is twofold: First, we evaluate the current capabilities of edge computing systems and their potential for LLM FL workloads. Second, by comparing these systems with a data-center GPU, we demonstrate the potential for improvement and the next steps toward achieving greater computational efficiency at the edge.

------------

`[2310.04420] BrainSCUBA: Fine-Grained Natural Language Captions of Visual Cortex Selectivity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.04420>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 17:35:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Andrew Luo [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 6 Oct 2023 17:59:53 UTC (20,798 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 17:35:33 UTC (29,640 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 3 May 2024 17:19:02 UTC (29,640 KB)
    Andrew F. Luo, Margaret M. Henderson, Michael J. Tarr, Leila Wehbe

Understanding the functional organization of higher visual cortex is a central focus in neuroscience. Past studies have primarily mapped the visual and semantic selectivity of neural populations using hand-selected stimuli, which may potentially bias results towards pre-existing hypotheses of visual cortex functionality. Moving beyond conventional approaches, we introduce a data-driven method that generates natural language descriptions for images predicted to maximally activate individual voxels of interest. Our method -- Semantic Captioning Using Brain Alignments ("BrainSCUBA") -- builds upon the rich embedding space learned by a contrastive vision-language model and utilizes a pre-trained large language model to generate interpretable captions. We validate our method through fine-grained voxel-level captioning across higher-order visual regions. We further perform text-conditioned image synthesis with the captions, and show that our images are semantically coherent and yield high predicted activations. Finally, to demonstrate how our method enables scientific discovery, we perform exploratory investigations on the distribution of "person" representations in the brain, and discover fine-grained semantic selectivity in body-selective areas. Unlike earlier studies that decode text, our method derives voxel-wise captions of semantic selectivity. Our results show that BrainSCUBA is a promising means for understanding functional preferences in the brain, and provides motivation for further hypothesis-driven investigation of visual cortex.

------------

`[2312.11875] Sparse is Enough in Fine-tuning Pre-trained Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11875>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 16:25:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Weixi Song [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 19 Dec 2023 06:06:30 UTC (915 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 16:25:46 UTC (1,315 KB)
    Weixi Song, Zuchao Li, Lefei Zhang, Hai Zhao, Bo Du

With the prevalence of pre-training-fine-tuning paradigm, how to efficiently adapt the pre-trained model to the downstream tasks has been an intriguing issue. Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) methods have been proposed for low-cost adaptation. Although PEFT has demonstrated effectiveness and been widely applied, the underlying principles are still unclear. In this paper, we adopt the PAC-Bayesian generalization error bound, viewing pre-training as a shift of prior distribution which leads to a tighter bound for generalization error. We validate this shift from the perspectives of oscillations in the loss landscape and the quasi-sparsity in gradient distribution. Based on this, we propose a gradient-based sparse fine-tuning algorithm, named Sparse Increment Fine-Tuning (SIFT), and validate its effectiveness on a range of tasks including the GLUE Benchmark and Instruction-tuning. The code is accessible at this https URL.

------------

`[2404.18311] Towards Real-time Learning in Large Language Models: A Critical Review <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18311>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 17:46:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Mlaan Jovanovi Dr [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 28 Apr 2024 20:44:53 UTC (2,199 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 30 Apr 2024 04:58:25 UTC (2,204 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 2 May 2024 17:46:02 UTC (2,206 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 5 May 2024 08:46:32 UTC (2,200 KB)
    Mladjan Jovanovic and Peter Voss

Incremental learning is the ability of systems to acquire knowledge over time, enabling their adaptation and generalization to novel tasks. It is a critical ability for intelligent, real-world systems, especially when data changes frequently or is limited. This review provides a comprehensive analysis of incremental learning in Large Language Models. It synthesizes the state-of-the-art incremental learning paradigms, including continual learning, meta-learning, parameter-efficient learning, and mixture-of-experts learning. We demonstrate their utility for incremental learning by describing specific achievements from these related topics and their critical factors. An important finding is that many of these approaches do not update the core model, and none of them update incrementally in real-time. The paper highlights current problems and challenges for future research in the field. By consolidating the latest relevant research developments, this review offers a comprehensive understanding of incremental learning and its implications for designing and developing LLM-based learning systems.

------------

`[2404.19484] More Compute Is What You Need <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19484>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 01:58:15 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhen Guo [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 30 Apr 2024 12:05:48 UTC (171 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 01:58:15 UTC (171 KB)
    Zhen Guo

Large language model pre-training has become increasingly expensive, with most practitioners relying on scaling laws to allocate compute budgets for model size and training tokens, commonly referred to as Compute-Optimal or Chinchilla Optimal. In this paper, we hypothesize a new scaling law that suggests model performance depends mostly on the amount of compute spent for transformer-based models, independent of the specific allocation to model size and dataset size. Using this unified scaling law, we predict that (a) for inference efficiency, training should prioritize smaller model sizes and larger training datasets, and (b) assuming the exhaustion of available web datasets, scaling the model size might be the only way to further improve model performance.

------------

`[2307.12488] A Case Study of Large Language Models (ChatGPT and CodeBERT) for Security-Oriented Code Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12488>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 1 May 2024 18:26:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhilong Wang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 24 Jul 2023 02:38:24 UTC (133 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 10 Aug 2023 20:27:53 UTC (363 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 29 Aug 2023 03:28:33 UTC (437 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 1 May 2024 18:26:54 UTC (207 KB)
    Zhilong Wang and Lan Zhang and Chen Cao and Nanqing Luo and Peng Liu

LLMs can be used on code analysis tasks like code review, vulnerabilities analysis and etc. However, the strengths and limitations of adopting these LLMs to the code analysis are still unclear. In this paper, we delve into LLMs' capabilities in security-oriented program analysis, considering perspectives from both attackers and security analysts. We focus on two representative LLMs, ChatGPT and CodeBert, and evaluate their performance in solving typical analytic tasks with varying levels of difficulty. Our study demonstrates the LLM's efficiency in learning high-level semantics from code, positioning ChatGPT as a potential asset in security-oriented contexts. However, it is essential to acknowledge certain limitations, such as the heavy reliance on well-defined variable and function names, making them unable to learn from anonymized code. For example, the performance of these LLMs heavily relies on the well-defined variable and function names, therefore, will not be able to learn anonymized code. We believe that the concerns raised in this case study deserve in-depth investigation in the future.

------------

`[2309.10621] Large language models can accurately predict searcher preferences <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10621>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 17:46:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Bhaskar Mitra [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 19 Sep 2023 13:55:39 UTC (1,687 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 17:46:39 UTC (642 KB)
    Paul Thomas, Seth Spielman, Nick Craswell and Bhaskar Mitra

Relevance labels, which indicate whether a search result is valuable to a searcher, are key to evaluating and optimising search systems. The best way to capture the true preferences of users is to ask them for their careful feedback on which results would be useful, but this approach does not scale to produce a large number of labels. Getting relevance labels at scale is usually done with third-party labellers, who judge on behalf of the user, but there is a risk of low-quality data if the labeller doesn't understand user needs. To improve quality, one standard approach is to study real users through interviews, user studies and direct feedback, find areas where labels are systematically disagreeing with users, then educate labellers about user needs through judging guidelines, training and monitoring. This paper introduces an alternate approach for improving label quality. It takes careful feedback from real users, which by definition is the highest-quality first-party gold data that can be derived, and develops an large language model prompt that agrees with that data.
We present ideas and observations from deploying language models for large-scale relevance labelling at Bing, and illustrate with data from TREC. We have found large language models can be effective, with accuracy as good as human labellers and similar capability to pick the hardest queries, best runs, and best groups. Systematic changes to the prompts make a difference in accuracy, but so too do simple paraphrases. To measure agreement with real searchers needs high-quality ``gold'' labels, but with these we find that models produce better labels than third-party workers, for a fraction of the cost, and these labels let us train notably better rankers.

------------

`[2402.05374] CIC: A framework for Culturally-aware Image Captioning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05374>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 02:41:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Youngsik Yun [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 03:12:25 UTC (9,813 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 2 May 2024 02:41:50 UTC (9,813 KB)
    Youngsik Yun and Jihie Kim

Image Captioning generates descriptive sentences from images using Vision-Language Pre-trained models (VLPs) such as BLIP, which has improved greatly. However, current methods lack the generation of detailed descriptive captions for the cultural elements depicted in the images, such as the traditional clothing worn by people from Asian cultural groups. In this paper, we propose a new framework, \textbf{Culturally-aware Image Captioning (CIC)}, that generates captions and describes cultural elements extracted from cultural visual elements in images representing cultures. Inspired by methods combining visual modality and Large Language Models (LLMs) through appropriate prompts, our framework (1) generates questions based on cultural categories from images, (2) extracts cultural visual elements from Visual Question Answering (VQA) using generated questions, and (3) generates culturally-aware captions using LLMs with the prompts. Our human evaluation conducted on 45 participants from 4 different cultural groups with a high understanding of the corresponding culture shows that our proposed framework generates more culturally descriptive captions when compared to the image captioning baseline based on VLPs. Our code and dataset will be made publicly available upon acceptance.

------------

`[2306.09649] ReactGenie: A Development Framework for Complex Multimodal Interactions Using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.09649>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 2 May 2024 08:28:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Jackie (Junrui) Yang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Jun 2023 06:53:26 UTC (16,236 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 06:31:56 UTC (16,510 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 2 May 2024 08:28:19 UTC (25,883 KB)
    Jackie Junrui Yang, Yingtian Shi, Yuhan Zhang, Karina Li, Daniel Wan Rosli, Anisha Jain, Shuning Zhang, Tianshi Li, James A. Landay, Monica S. Lam

By combining voice and touch interactions, multimodal interfaces can surpass the efficiency of either modality alone. Traditional multimodal frameworks require laborious developer work to support rich multimodal commands where the user's multimodal command involves possibly exponential combinations of actions/function invocations. This paper presents ReactGenie, a programming framework that better separates multimodal input from the computational model to enable developers to create efficient and capable multimodal interfaces with ease. ReactGenie translates multimodal user commands into NLPL (Natural Language Programming Language), a programming language we created, using a neural semantic parser based on large-language models. The ReactGenie runtime interprets the parsed NLPL and composes primitives in the computational model to implement complex user commands. As a result, ReactGenie allows easy implementation and unprecedented richness in commands for end-users of multimodal apps. Our evaluation showed that 12 developers can learn and build a nontrivial ReactGenie application in under 2.5 hours on average. In addition, compared with a traditional GUI, end-users can complete tasks faster and with less task load using ReactGenie apps.

------------

