240305
========

`[2403.00783] On the Roles of LLMs in Planning: Embedding LLMs into Planning Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00783>`__

::

    Sun, 18 Feb 2024 15:53:32 GMT
    Hankz Hankui Zhuo and Xin Chen and Rong Pan

Plan synthesis aims to generate a course of actions or policies to transit given initial states to goal states, provided domain models that could be designed by experts or learnt from training data or interactions with the world. Intrigued by the claims of emergent planning capabilities in large language models (LLMs), works have been proposed to investigate the planning effectiveness of LLMs, without considering any utilization of off-the-shelf planning techniques in LLMs. In this paper, we aim to further study the insight of the planning capability of LLMs by investigating the roles of LLMs in off-the-shelf planning frameworks. To do this, we investigate the effectiveness of embedding LLMs into one of the well-known planning frameworks, graph-based planning, proposing a novel LLMs-based planning framework with LLMs embedded in two levels of planning graphs, i.e., mutual constraints generation level and constraints solving level. We empirically exhibit the effectiveness of our proposed framework in various planning domains.

------------

`[2403.00810] Bootstrapping Cognitive Agents with a Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00810>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 01:40:30 GMT
    Feiyu Zhu, Reid Simmons

Large language models contain noisy general knowledge of the world, yet are hard to train or fine-tune. On the other hand cognitive architectures have excellent interpretability and are flexible to update but require a lot of manual work to instantiate. In this work, we combine the best of both worlds: bootstrapping a cognitive-based model with the noisy knowledge encoded in large language models. Through an embodied agent doing kitchen tasks, we show that our proposed framework yields better efficiency compared to an agent based entirely on large language models. Our experiments indicate that large language models are a good source of information for cognitive architectures, and the cognitive architecture in turn can verify and update the knowledge of large language models to a specific domain.

------------

`[2403.00811] Cognitive Bias in High-Stakes Decision-Making with LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00811>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 02:35:56 GMT
    Jessica Echterhoff, Yao Liu, Abeer Alessa, Julian McAuley, Zexue He

Large language models (LLMs) offer significant potential as tools to support an expanding range of decision-making tasks. However, given their training on human (created) data, LLMs can inherit both societal biases against protected groups, as well as be subject to cognitive bias. Such human-like bias can impede fair and explainable decisions made with LLM assistance. Our work introduces BiasBuster, a framework designed to uncover, evaluate, and mitigate cognitive bias in LLMs, particularly in high-stakes decision-making tasks.
Inspired by prior research in psychology and cognitive sciences, we develop a dataset containing 16,800 prompts to evaluate different cognitive biases (e.g., prompt-induced, sequential, inherent). We test various bias mitigation strategies, amidst proposing a novel method using LLMs to debias their own prompts. Our analysis provides a comprehensive picture on the presence and effects of cognitive bias across different commercial and open-source models.
We demonstrate that our self-help debiasing effectively mitigate cognitive bias without having to manually craft examples for each bias type.

------------

`[2403.00829] TroubleLLM: Align to Red Team Expert <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00829>`__

::

    Wed, 28 Feb 2024 03:40:46 GMT
    Zhuoer Xu, Jianping Zhang, Shiwen Cui, Changhua Meng, Weiqiang Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) become the start-of-the-art solutions for a variety of natural language tasks and are integrated into real-world applications. However, LLMs can be potentially harmful in manifesting undesirable safety issues like social biases and toxic content. It is imperative to assess its safety issues before deployment. However, the quality and diversity of test prompts generated by existing methods are still far from satisfactory. Not only are these methods labor-intensive and require large budget costs, but the controllability of test prompt generation is lacking for the specific testing domain of LLM applications. With the idea of LLM for LLM testing, we propose the first LLM, called TroubleLLM, to generate controllable test prompts on LLM safety issues. Extensive experiments and human evaluation illustrate the superiority of TroubleLLM on generation quality and generation controllability.

------------

`[2403.00830] MedAide: Leveraging Large Language Models for On-Premise Medical Assistance on Edge Devices <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00830>`__

::

    Wed, 28 Feb 2024 08:30:49 GMT
    Abdul Basit, Khizar Hussain, Muhammad Abdullah Hanif, Muhammad Shafique

Large language models (LLMs) are revolutionizing various domains with their remarkable natural language processing (NLP) abilities. However, deploying LLMs in resource-constrained edge computing and embedded systems presents significant challenges. Another challenge lies in delivering medical assistance in remote areas with limited healthcare facilities and infrastructure. To address this, we introduce MedAide, an on-premise healthcare chatbot. It leverages tiny-LLMs integrated with LangChain, providing efficient edge-based preliminary medical diagnostics and support. MedAide employs model optimizations for minimal memory footprint and latency on embedded edge devices without server infrastructure. The training process is optimized using low-rank adaptation (LoRA). Additionally, the model is trained on diverse medical datasets, employing reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) to enhance its domain-specific capabilities. The system is implemented on various consumer GPUs and Nvidia Jetson development board. MedAide achieves 77\% accuracy in medical consultations and scores 56 in USMLE benchmark, enabling an energy-efficient healthcare assistance platform that alleviates privacy concerns due to edge-based deployment, thereby empowering the community.

------------

`[2403.00839] ToolNet: Connecting Large Language Models with Massive Tools via Tool Graph <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00839>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 02:04:00 GMT
    Xukun Liu, Zhiyuan Peng, Xiaoyuan Yi, Xing Xie, Lirong Xiang, Yuchen Liu, Dongkuan Xu

While achieving remarkable progress in a broad range of tasks, large language models (LLMs) remain significantly limited in properly using massive external tools. Existing in-context learning approaches simply format tools into a list of plain text descriptions and input them to LLMs, from which, LLMs generate a sequence of tool calls to solve problems step by step. Such a paradigm ignores the intrinsic dependency between tools and offloads all reasoning loads to LLMs, making them restricted to a limited number of specifically designed tools. It thus remains challenging for LLMs to operate on a library of massive tools, casting a great limitation when confronted with real-world scenarios.
This paper proposes ToolNet, a plug-and-play framework that scales up the number of tools to thousands with a moderate increase in token consumption.
ToolNet organizes tools into a directed graph. Each node represents a tool, and weighted edges denote tool transition. Starting from an initial tool node, an LLM navigates in the graph by iteratively choosing the next one from its successors until the task is resolved. Extensive experiments show that ToolNet can achieve impressive results in challenging multi-hop tool learning datasets and is resilient to tool failures.

------------

`[2403.01199] The Case for Animal-Friendly AI <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01199>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 12:41:11 GMT
    Sankalpa Ghose, Yip Fai Tse, Kasra Rasaee, Jeff Sebo, Peter Singer

Artificial intelligence is seen as increasingly important, and potentially profoundly so, but the fields of AI ethics and AI engineering have not fully recognized that these technologies, including large language models (LLMs), will have massive impacts on animals. We argue that this impact matters, because animals matter morally.
As a first experiment in evaluating animal consideration in LLMs, we constructed a proof-of-concept Evaluation System, which assesses LLM responses and biases from multiple perspectives. This system evaluates LLM outputs by two criteria: their truthfulness, and the degree of consideration they give to the interests of animals. We tested OpenAI ChatGPT 4 and Anthropic Claude 2.1 using a set of structured queries and predefined normative perspectives. Preliminary results suggest that the outcomes of the tested models can be benchmarked regarding the consideration they give to animals, and that generated positions and biases might be addressed and mitigated with more developed and validated systems.
Our research contributes one possible approach to integrating animal ethics in AI, opening pathways for future studies and practical applications in various fields, including education, public policy, and regulation, that involve or relate to animals and society. Overall, this study serves as a step towards more useful and responsible AI systems that better recognize and respect the vital interests and perspectives of all sentient beings.

------------

`[2403.01757] How Multimodal Integration Boost the Performance of LLM for Optimization: Case Study on Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01757>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:24:21 GMT
    Yuxiao Huang, Wenjie Zhang, Liang Feng, Xingyu Wu, Kay Chen Tan

Recently, large language models (LLMs) have notably positioned them as capable tools for addressing complex optimization challenges. Despite this recognition, a predominant limitation of existing LLM-based optimization methods is their struggle to capture the relationships among decision variables when relying exclusively on numerical text prompts, especially in high-dimensional problems. Keeping this in mind, we first propose to enhance the optimization performance using multimodal LLM capable of processing both textual and visual prompts for deeper insights of the processed optimization problem. This integration allows for a more comprehensive understanding of optimization problems, akin to human cognitive processes. We have developed a multimodal LLM-based optimization framework that simulates human problem-solving workflows, thereby offering a more nuanced and effective analysis. The efficacy of this method is evaluated through extensive empirical studies focused on a well-known combinatorial optimization problem, i.e., capacitated vehicle routing problem. The results are compared against those obtained from the LLM-based optimization algorithms that rely solely on textual prompts, demonstrating the significant advantages of our multimodal approach.

------------

`[2403.01784] CatCode: A Comprehensive Evaluation Framework for LLMs On the Mixture of Code and Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01784>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:26:07 GMT
    Zhenru Lin, Yiqun Yao, Yang Yuan

Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT are increasingly proficient in understanding and generating a mixture of code and text. Evaluation based on such $\textit{mixture}$ can lead to a more comprehensive understanding of the models' abilities in solving coding problems. However, in this context, current evaluation methods are either limited in task coverage or lack standardization.
To address this issue, we propose using category theory as a framework for evaluation. Specifically, morphisms within a code category can represent code debugging and transformation, functors between two categories represent code translation, and functors between a code category and a natural language category represent code generation, explanation, and reproduction. We present an automatic evaluation framework called $\textbf{CatCode}$ ($\textbf{Cat}$egory $\textbf{Code}$) that can comprehensively assess the coding abilities of LLMs, including ChatGPT, Text-Davinci, and CodeGeeX.

------------

`[2403.02054] Large Language Model-Based Evolutionary Optimizer: Reasoning with elitism <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02054>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 13:57:37 GMT
    Shuvayan Brahmachary, Subodh M. Joshi, Aniruddha Panda, Kaushik Koneripalli, Arun Kumar Sagotra, Harshil Patel, Ankush Sharma, Ameya D. Jagtap, Kaushic Kalyanaraman

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable reasoning abilities, prompting interest in their application as black-box optimizers.
This paper asserts that LLMs possess the capability for zero-shot optimization across diverse scenarios, including multi-objective and high-dimensional problems. We introduce a novel population-based method for numerical optimization using LLMs called Language-Model-Based Evolutionary Optimizer (LEO). Our hypothesis is supported through numerical examples, spanning benchmark and industrial engineering problems such as supersonic nozzle shape optimization, heat transfer, and windfarm layout optimization. We compare our method to several gradient-based and gradient-free optimization approaches.
While LLMs yield comparable results to state-of-the-art methods, their imaginative nature and propensity to hallucinate demand careful handling. We provide practical guidelines for obtaining reliable answers from LLMs and discuss method limitations and potential research directions.

------------

`[2403.02164] Cognition is All You Need - The Next Layer of AI Above Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02164>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:11:57 GMT
    Nova Spivack, Sam Douglas, Michelle Crames, Tim Connors

Recent studies of the applications of conversational AI tools, such as chatbots powered by large language models, to complex real-world knowledge work have shown limitations related to reasoning and multi-step problem solving.
Specifically, while existing chatbots simulate shallow reasoning and understanding they are prone to errors as problem complexity increases. The failure of these systems to address complex knowledge work is due to the fact that they do not perform any actual cognition. In this position paper, we present Cognitive AI, a higher-level framework for implementing programmatically defined neuro-symbolic cognition above and outside of large language models. Specifically, we propose a dual-layer functional architecture for Cognitive AI that serves as a roadmap for AI systems that can perform complex multi-step knowledge work. We propose that Cognitive AI is a necessary precursor for the evolution of higher forms of AI, such as AGI, and specifically claim that AGI cannot be achieved by probabilistic approaches on their own. We conclude with a discussion of the implications for large language models, adoption cycles in AI, and commercial Cognitive AI development.

------------

`[2403.02290] Koopman-Assisted Reinforcement Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02290>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:19:48 GMT
    Preston Rozwood, Edward Mehrez, Ludger Paehler, Wen Sun, Steven L. Brunton

The Bellman equation and its continuous form, the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation, are ubiquitous in reinforcement learning (RL) and control theory. However, these equations quickly become intractable for systems with high-dimensional states and nonlinearity. This paper explores the connection between the data-driven Koopman operator and Markov Decision Processes (MDPs), resulting in the development of two new RL algorithms to address these limitations. We leverage Koopman operator techniques to lift a nonlinear system into new coordinates where the dynamics become approximately linear, and where HJB-based methods are more tractable. In particular, the Koopman operator is able to capture the expectation of the time evolution of the value function of a given system via linear dynamics in the lifted coordinates. By parameterizing the Koopman operator with the control actions, we construct a ``Koopman tensor'' that facilitates the estimation of the optimal value function. Then, a transformation of Bellman's framework in terms of the Koopman tensor enables us to reformulate two max-entropy RL algorithms: soft value iteration and soft actor-critic (SAC). This highly flexible framework can be used for deterministic or stochastic systems as well as for discrete or continuous-time dynamics. Finally, we show that these Koopman Assisted Reinforcement Learning (KARL) algorithms attain state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance with respect to traditional neural network-based SAC and linear quadratic regulator (LQR) baselines on four controlled dynamical systems: a linear state-space system, the Lorenz system, fluid flow past a cylinder, and a double-well potential with non-isotropic stochastic forcing.

------------

`[2403.00794] Getting Serious about Humor: Crafting Humor Datasets with Unfunny Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00794>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 02:58:12 GMT
    Zachary Horvitz, Jingru Chen, Rahul Aditya, Harshvardhan Srivastava, Robert West, Zhou Yu, Kathleen McKeown

Humor is a fundamental facet of human cognition and interaction. Yet, despite recent advances in natural language processing, humor detection remains a challenging task that is complicated by the scarcity of datasets that pair humorous texts with similar non-humorous counterparts. In our work, we investigate whether large language models (LLMs), can generate synthetic data for humor detection via editing texts. We benchmark LLMs on an existing human dataset and show that current LLMs display an impressive ability to `unfun' jokes, as judged by humans and as measured on the downstream task of humor detection. We extend our approach to a code-mixed English-Hindi humor dataset, where we find that GPT-4's synthetic data is highly rated by bilingual annotators and provides challenging adversarial examples for humor classifiers.

------------

`[2403.00795] Executing Natural Language-Described Algorithms with Large Language Models: An Investigation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00795>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 05:31:36 GMT
    Xin Zheng, Qiming Zhu, Hongyu Lin, Yaojie Lu, Xianpei Han and Le Sun

Executing computer programs described in natural language has long been a pursuit of computer science. With the advent of enhanced natural language understanding capabilities exhibited by large language models (LLMs), the path toward this goal has been illuminated. In this paper, we seek to examine the capacity of present-day LLMs to comprehend and execute algorithms outlined in natural language. We established an algorithm test set sourced from Introduction to Algorithm, a well-known textbook that contains many representative widely-used algorithms. To systematically assess LLMs' code execution abilities, we selected 30 algorithms, generated 300 random-sampled instances in total, and evaluated whether popular LLMs can understand and execute these algorithms. Our findings reveal that LLMs, notably GPT-4, can effectively execute programs described in natural language, as long as no heavy numeric computation is involved. We believe our findings contribute to evaluating LLMs' code execution abilities and would encourage further investigation and application for the computation power of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.00799] An Empirical Study of Data Ability Boundary in LLMs' Math Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00799>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 17:38:43 GMT
    Zui Chen, Yezeng Chen, Jiaqi Han, Zhijie Huang, Ji Qi, Yi Zhou

Large language models (LLMs) are displaying emergent abilities for math reasoning tasks,and there is a growing attention on enhancing the ability of open-source LLMs through supervised fine-tuning (SFT).In this paper, we aim to explore a general data strategy for supervised data to help optimize and expand math reasoning ability.Firstly, we determine the ability boundary of reasoning paths augmentation by identifying these paths' minimal optimal set.Secondly, we validate that different abilities of the model can be cumulatively enhanced by Mix of Minimal Optimal Sets of corresponding types of data, while our models MMOS achieve SOTA performance on series base models under much lower construction costs.Besides, we point out GSM-HARD is not really hard and today's LLMs no longer lack numerical robustness.Also, we provide an Auto Problem Generator for robustness testing and educational applications.Our code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/cyzhh/MMOS.

------------

`[2403.00800] Brain-Inspired Two-Stage Approach: Enhancing Mathematical Reasoning by Imitating Human Thought Processes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00800>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 17:40:31 GMT
    Yezeng Chen, Zui Chen, Yi Zhou

Although large language models demonstrate emergent abilities in solving math word problems, there is a challenging task in complex multi-step mathematical reasoning tasks. To improve model performance on mathematical reasoning tasks, previous work has conducted supervised fine-tuning on open-source models by improving the quality and quantity of data. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, named Brain, to imitate human thought processes to enhance mathematical reasoning abilities, using the Frontal Lobe Model to generate plans, and then employing the Parietal Lobe Model to generate code and execute to obtain answers. First, we achieve SOTA performance in comparison with Code LLaMA 7B based models through this method. Secondly, we find that plans can be explicitly extracted from natural language, code, or formal language. Our code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/cyzhh/Brain.

------------

`[2403.00812] LoRA Meets Dropout under a Unified Framework <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00812>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 07:09:10 GMT
    Sheng Wang, Liheng Chen, Jiyue Jiang, Boyang Xue, Lingpeng Kong, Chuan Wu

With the remarkable capabilities, large language models (LLMs) have emerged as essential elements in numerous NLP applications, while parameter-efficient finetuning, especially LoRA, has gained popularity as a lightweight approach for model customization. Meanwhile, various dropout methods, initially designed for full finetuning with all the parameters updated, alleviates overfitting associated with excessive parameter redundancy. Hence, a possible contradiction arises from negligible trainable parameters of LoRA and the effectiveness of previous dropout methods, which has been largely overlooked. To fill this gap, we first confirm that parameter-efficient LoRA is also overfitting-prone. We then revisit transformer-specific dropout methods, and establish their equivalence and distinctions mathematically and empirically. Building upon this comparative analysis, we introduce a unified framework for a comprehensive investigation, which instantiates these methods based on dropping position, structural pattern and compensation measure. Through this framework, we reveal the new preferences and performance comparisons of them when involved with limited trainable parameters. This framework also allows us to amalgamate the most favorable aspects into a novel dropout method named HiddenKey. Extensive experiments verify the remarkable superiority and sufficiency of HiddenKey across multiple models and tasks, which highlights it as the preferred approach for high-performance and parameter-efficient finetuning of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.00813] UrbanGPT: Spatio-Temporal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00813>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 12:37:29 GMT
    Zhonghang Li, Lianghao Xia, Jiabin Tang, Yong Xu, Lei Shi, Long Xia, Dawei Yin, Chao Huang

Spatio-temporal prediction aims to forecast and gain insights into the ever-changing dynamics of urban environments across both time and space. Its purpose is to anticipate future patterns, trends, and events in diverse facets of urban life, including transportation, population movement, and crime rates.
Although numerous efforts have been dedicated to developing neural network techniques for accurate predictions on spatio-temporal data, it is important to note that many of these methods heavily depend on having sufficient labeled data to generate precise spatio-temporal representations. Unfortunately, the issue of data scarcity is pervasive in practical urban sensing scenarios.
Consequently, it becomes necessary to build a spatio-temporal model with strong generalization capabilities across diverse spatio-temporal learning scenarios.
Taking inspiration from the remarkable achievements of large language models (LLMs), our objective is to create a spatio-temporal LLM that can exhibit exceptional generalization capabilities across a wide range of downstream urban tasks. To achieve this objective, we present the UrbanGPT, which seamlessly integrates a spatio-temporal dependency encoder with the instruction-tuning paradigm. This integration enables LLMs to comprehend the complex inter-dependencies across time and space, facilitating more comprehensive and accurate predictions under data scarcity. To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we conduct extensive experiments on various public datasets, covering different spatio-temporal prediction tasks. The results consistently demonstrate that our UrbanGPT, with its carefully designed architecture, consistently outperforms state-of-the-art baselines. These findings highlight the potential of building large language models for spatio-temporal learning, particularly in zero-shot scenarios where labeled data is scarce.

------------

`[2403.00818] DenseMamba: State Space Models with Dense Hidden Connection for Efficient Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00818>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 09:21:59 GMT
    Wei He, Kai Han, Yehui Tang, Chengcheng Wang, Yujie Yang, Tianyu Guo, Yunhe Wang

Large language models (LLMs) face a daunting challenge due to the excessive computational and memory requirements of the commonly used Transformer architecture. While state space model (SSM) is a new type of foundational network architecture offering lower computational complexity, their performance has yet to fully rival that of Transformers. This paper introduces DenseSSM, a novel approach to enhance the flow of hidden information between layers in SSMs. By selectively integrating shallowlayer hidden states into deeper layers, DenseSSM retains fine-grained information crucial for the final output. Dense connections enhanced DenseSSM still maintains the training parallelizability and inference efficiency. The proposed method can be widely applicable to various SSM types like RetNet and Mamba. With similar model size, DenseSSM achieves significant improvements, exemplified by DenseRetNet outperforming the original RetNet with up to 5% accuracy improvement on public benchmarks.

------------

`[2403.00826] LLMGuard: Guarding Against Unsafe LLM Behavior <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00826>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:22:45 GMT
    Shubh Goyal, Medha Hira, Shubham Mishra, Sukriti Goyal, Arnav Goel, Niharika Dadu, Kirushikesh DB, Sameep Mehta, Nishtha Madaan

Although the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) in enterprise settings brings new opportunities and capabilities, it also brings challenges, such as the risk of generating inappropriate, biased, or misleading content that violates regulations and can have legal concerns. To alleviate this, we present "LLMGuard", a tool that monitors user interactions with an LLM application and flags content against specific behaviours or conversation topics. To do this robustly, LLMGuard employs an ensemble of detectors.

------------

`[2403.00827] Self-Refinement of Language Models from External Proxy Metrics Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00827>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 19:13:01 GMT
    Keshav Ramji, Young-Suk Lee, Ram\'on Fernandez Astudillo, Md Arafat Sultan, Tahira Naseem, Asim Munawar, Radu Florian, Salim Roukos

It is often desirable for Large Language Models (LLMs) to capture multiple objectives when providing a response. In document-grounded response generation, for example, agent responses are expected to be relevant to a user's query while also being grounded in a given document. In this paper, we introduce Proxy Metric-based Self-Refinement (ProMiSe), which enables an LLM to refine its own initial response along key dimensions of quality guided by external metrics feedback, yielding an overall better final response. ProMiSe leverages feedback on response quality through principle-specific proxy metrics, and iteratively refines its response one principle at a time. We apply ProMiSe to open source language models Flan-T5-XXL and Llama-2-13B-Chat, to evaluate its performance on document-grounded question answering datasets, MultiDoc2Dial and QuAC, demonstrating that self-refinement improves response quality. We further show that fine-tuning Llama-2-13B-Chat on the synthetic dialogue data generated by ProMiSe yields significant performance improvements over the zero-shot baseline as well as a supervised fine-tuned model on human annotated data.

------------

`[2403.00828] Deep Learning Detection Method for Large Language Models-Generated Scientific Content <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00828>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 19:16:39 GMT
    Bushra Alhijawi, Rawan Jarrar, Aseel AbuAlRub, and Arwa Bader

Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-3 and BERT, reshape how textual content is written and communicated. These models have the potential to generate scientific content that is indistinguishable from that written by humans. Hence, LLMs carry severe consequences for the scientific community, which relies on the integrity and reliability of publications. This research paper presents a novel ChatGPT-generated scientific text detection method, AI-Catcher. AI-Catcher integrates two deep learning models, multilayer perceptron (MLP) and convolutional neural networks (CNN). The MLP learns the feature representations of the linguistic and statistical features. The CNN extracts high-level representations of the sequential patterns from the textual content. AI-Catcher is a multimodal model that fuses hidden patterns derived from MLP and CNN. In addition, a new ChatGPT-Generated scientific text dataset is collected to enhance AI-generated text detection tools, AIGTxt. AIGTxt contains 3000 records collected from published academic articles across ten domains and divided into three classes: Human-written, ChatGPT-generated, and Mixed text. Several experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of AI-Catcher. The comparative results demonstrate the capability of AI-Catcher to distinguish between human-written and ChatGPT-generated scientific text more accurately than alternative methods. On average, AI-Catcher improved accuracy by 37.4%.

------------

`[2403.00835] CLLMs: Consistency Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00835>`__

::

    Wed, 28 Feb 2024 20:17:04 GMT
    Siqi Kou, Lanxiang Hu, Zhezhi He, Zhijie Deng, Hao Zhang

Parallel decoding methods such as Jacobi decoding show promise for more efficient LLM inference as it breaks the sequential nature of the LLM decoding process and transforms it into parallelizable computation. However, in practice, it achieves little speedup compared to traditional autoregressive (AR) decoding, primarily because Jacobi decoding seldom accurately predicts more than one token in a single fixed-point iteration step. To address this, we develop a new approach aimed at realizing fast convergence from any state to the fixed point on a Jacobi trajectory. This is accomplished by refining the target LLM to consistently predict the fixed point given any state as input.
Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, showing 2.4$\times$ to 3.4$\times$ improvements in generation speed while preserving generation quality across both domain-specific and open-domain benchmarks.

------------

`[2403.00840] EyeGPT: Ophthalmic Assistant with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00840>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 09:35:41 GMT
    Xiaolan Chen, Ziwei Zhao, Weiyi Zhang, Pusheng Xu, Le Gao, Mingpu Xu, Yue Wu, Yinwen Li, Danli Shi, Mingguang He

Artificial intelligence (AI) has gained significant attention in healthcare consultation due to its potential to improve clinical workflow and enhance medical communication. However, owing to the complex nature of medical information, large language models (LLM) trained with general world knowledge might not possess the capability to tackle medical-related tasks at an expert level. Here, we introduce EyeGPT, a specialized LLM designed specifically for ophthalmology, using three optimization strategies including role-playing, finetuning, and retrieval-augmented generation. In particular, we proposed a comprehensive evaluation framework that encompasses a diverse dataset, covering various subspecialties of ophthalmology, different users, and diverse inquiry intents. Moreover, we considered multiple evaluation metrics, including accuracy, understandability, trustworthiness, empathy, and the proportion of hallucinations. By assessing the performance of different EyeGPT variants, we identify the most effective one, which exhibits comparable levels of understandability, trustworthiness, and empathy to human ophthalmologists (all Ps>0.05). Overall, ur study provides valuable insights for future research, facilitating comprehensive comparisons and evaluations of different strategies for developing specialized LLMs in ophthalmology. The potential benefits include enhancing the patient experience in eye care and optimizing ophthalmologists' services.

------------

`[2403.00862] NewsBench: Systematic Evaluation of LLMs for Writing Proficiency and Safety Adherence in Chinese Journalistic Editorial Applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00862>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 21:05:14 GMT
    Miao Li and Ming-Bin Chen and Bo Tang and Shengbin Hou and Pengyu Wang and Haiying Deng and Zhiyu Li and Feiyu Xiong and Keming Mao and Peng Cheng and Yi Luo

This study presents NewsBench, a novel benchmark framework developed to evaluate the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) in Chinese Journalistic Writing Proficiency (JWP) and their Safety Adherence (SA), addressing the gap between journalistic ethics and the risks associated with AI utilization.
Comprising 1,267 tasks across 5 editorial applications, 7 aspects (including safety and journalistic writing with 4 detailed facets), and spanning 24 news topics domains, NewsBench employs two GPT-4 based automatic evaluation protocols validated by human assessment. Our comprehensive analysis of 11 LLMs highlighted GPT-4 and ERNIE Bot as top performers, yet revealed a relative deficiency in journalistic ethic adherence during creative writing tasks. These findings underscore the need for enhanced ethical guidance in AI-generated journalistic content, marking a step forward in aligning AI capabilities with journalistic standards and safety considerations.

------------

`[2403.00868] SoftTiger: A Clinical Foundation Model for Healthcare Workflows <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00868>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 04:39:16 GMT
    Ye Chen, Igor Couto, Wei Cai, Cong Fu, Bruno Dorneles

We release and introduce SoftTiger, a clinical large language model (CLaM) designed as a foundation model for healthcare workflows. The narrative and unstructured nature of clinical notes is a major obstacle for healthcare intelligentization. We address a critical problem of structuring clinical notes into clinical data, according to international interoperability standards. We collect and annotate data for three critical subtasks, namely, international patient summary, clinical impression and medical encounter. We then supervised fine-tuned a state-of-the-art LLM using public and credentialed clinical data.
The training is orchestrated in a way that the target model can first support basic clinical tasks such as abbreviation expansion and temporal information extraction, and then learn to perform more complex downstream clinical tasks such as impression and encounter summary. Moreover, we address, several modeling challenges in the healthcare context, e.g., extra long context window.
Our blind pairwise evaluation shows that SoftTiger outperforms other popular open-source models and GPT-3.5, comparable to Gemini-pro, and only has a mild gap from GPT-4. We believe that LLMs may become a step-stone towards healthcare digitalization and democratization. Therefore, we publicly release SoftTiger models at scales of 13 billion and 70 billion parameters, as well as datasets and code for our innovative scalable evaluation, hopefully, making a significant contribution to the healthcare industry.

------------

`[2403.00896] DiaHalu: A Dialogue-level Hallucination Evaluation Benchmark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00896>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 15:38:55 GMT
    Kedi Chen and Qin Chen and Jie Zhou and Yishen He and Liang He

Since large language models (LLMs) achieve significant success in recent years, the hallucination issue remains a challenge, numerous benchmarks are proposed to detect the hallucination. Nevertheless, some of these benchmarks are not naturally generated by LLMs but are intentionally induced. Also, many merely focus on the factuality hallucination while ignoring the faithfulness hallucination. Additionally, although dialogue pattern is more widely utilized in the era of LLMs, current benchmarks only concentrate on sentence-level and passage-level hallucination. In this study, we propose DiaHalu, the first dialogue-level hallucination evaluation benchmark to our knowledge. Initially, we integrate the collected topics into system prompts and facilitate a dialogue between two ChatGPT3.5. Subsequently, we manually modify the contents that do not adhere to human language conventions and then have LLMs re-generate, simulating authentic human-machine interaction scenarios. Finally, professional scholars annotate all the samples in the dataset. DiaHalu covers four common multi-turn dialogue domains and five hallucination subtypes, extended from factuality and faithfulness hallucination. Experiments through some well-known LLMs and detection methods on the dataset show that DiaHalu is a challenging benchmark, holding significant value for further research.

------------

`[2403.00952] MediSwift: Efficient Sparse Pre-trained Biomedical Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00952>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 20:03:44 GMT
    Vithursan Thangarasa, Mahmoud Salem, Shreyas Saxena, Kevin Leong, Joel Hestness, Sean Lie

Large language models (LLMs) are typically trained on general source data for various domains, but a recent surge in domain-specific LLMs has shown their potential to outperform general-purpose models in domain-specific tasks (e.g., biomedicine). Although domain-specific pre-training enhances efficiency and leads to smaller models, the computational costs of training these LLMs remain high, posing budgeting challenges. We introduce MediSwift, a suite of biomedical LMs that leverage sparse pre-training on domain-specific biomedical text data. By inducing up to 75% weight sparsity during the pre-training phase, MediSwift achieves a 2-2.5x reduction in training FLOPs. Notably, all sparse pre-training was performed on the Cerebras CS-2 system, which is specifically designed to realize the acceleration benefits from unstructured weight sparsity, thereby significantly enhancing the efficiency of the MediSwift models. Through subsequent dense fine-tuning and strategic soft prompting, MediSwift models outperform existing LLMs up to 7B parameters on biomedical tasks, setting new benchmarks w.r.t efficiency-accuracy on tasks such as PubMedQA. Our results show that sparse pre-training, along with dense fine-tuning and soft prompting, offers an effective method for creating high-performing, computationally efficient models in specialized domains.

------------

`[2403.00953] AutoRD: An Automatic and End-to-End System for Rare Disease Knowledge Graph Construction Based on Ontologies-enhanced Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00953>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 20:06:39 GMT
    Lang Cao, Jimeng Sun, Adam Cross

Objectives: Our objective is to create an end-to-end system called AutoRD, which automates extracting information from clinical text about rare diseases.
We have conducted various tests to evaluate the performance of AutoRD and highlighted its strengths and limitations in this paper.
Materials and Methods: Our system, AutoRD, is a software pipeline involving data preprocessing, entity extraction, relation extraction, entity calibration, and knowledge graph construction. We implement this using large language models and medical knowledge graphs developed from open-source medical ontologies. We quantitatively evaluate our system on entity extraction, relation extraction, and the performance of knowledge graph construction.
Results: AutoRD achieves an overall F1 score of 47.3%, a 14.4% improvement compared to the base LLM. In detail, AutoRD achieves an overall entity extraction F1 score of 56.1% (rare_disease: 83.5%, disease: 35.8%, symptom_and_sign: 46.1%, anaphor: 67.5%) and an overall relation extraction F1 score of 38.6% (produces: 34.7%, increases_risk_of: 12.4%, is_a: 37.4%, is_acronym: 44.1%, is_synonym: 16.3%, anaphora: 57.5%). Our qualitative experiment also demonstrates that the performance in constructing the knowledge graph is commendable.
Discussion: AutoRD demonstrates the potential of LLM applications in rare disease detection. This improvement is attributed to several design, including the integration of ontologies-enhanced LLMs.
Conclusion: AutoRD is an automated end-to-end system for extracting rare disease information from text to build knowledge graphs. It uses ontologies-enhanced LLMs for a robust medical knowledge base. The superior performance of AutoRD is validated by experimental evaluations, demonstrating the potential of LLMs in healthcare.

------------

`[2403.00964] MALTO at SemEval-2024 Task 6: Leveraging Synthetic Data for LLM Hallucination Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00964>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 20:31:10 GMT
    Federico Borra, Claudio Savelli, Giacomo Rosso, Alkis Koudounas, Flavio Giobergia

In Natural Language Generation (NLG), contemporary Large Language Models (LLMs) face several challenges, such as generating fluent yet inaccurate outputs and reliance on fluency-centric metrics. This often leads to neural networks exhibiting "hallucinations". The SHROOM challenge focuses on automatically identifying these hallucinations in the generated text. To tackle these issues, we introduce two key components, a data augmentation pipeline incorporating LLM-assisted pseudo-labelling and sentence rephrasing, and a voting ensemble from three models pre-trained on Natural Language Inference (NLI) tasks and fine-tuned on diverse datasets.

------------

`[2403.00982] LocalRQA: From Generating Data to Locally Training, Testing, and Deploying Retrieval-Augmented QA Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00982>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 21:10:20 GMT
    Xiao Yu, Yunan Lu, Zhou Yu

Retrieval-augmented question-answering systems combine retrieval techniques with large language models to provide answers that are more accurate and informative. Many existing toolkits allow users to quickly build such systems using off-the-shelf models, but they fall short in supporting researchers and developers to customize the model training, testing, and deployment process. We propose LocalRQA, an open-source toolkit that features a wide selection of model training algorithms, evaluation methods, and deployment tools curated from the latest research. As a showcase, we build QA systems using online documentation obtained from Databricks and Faire's websites. We find 7B-models trained and deployed using LocalRQA reach a similar performance compared to using OpenAI's text-ada-002 and GPT-4-turbo.

------------

`[2403.00990] Formulation Comparison for Timeline Construction using LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00990>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 21:24:24 GMT
    Kimihiro Hasegawa, Nikhil Kandukuri, Susan Holm, Yukari Yamakawa, Teruko Mitamura

Constructing a timeline requires identifying the chronological order of events in an article. In prior timeline construction datasets, temporal orders are typically annotated by either event-to-time anchoring or event-to-event pairwise ordering, both of which suffer from missing temporal information. To mitigate the issue, we develop a new evaluation dataset, TimeSET, consisting of single-document timelines with document-level order annotation. TimeSET features saliency-based event selection and partial ordering, which enable a practical annotation workload. Aiming to build better automatic timeline construction systems, we propose a novel evaluation framework to compare multiple task formulations with TimeSET by prompting open LLMs, i.e., Llama 2 and Flan-T5. Considering that identifying temporal orders of events is a core subtask in timeline construction, we further benchmark open LLMs on existing event temporal ordering datasets to gain a robust understanding of their capabilities. Our experiments show that (1) NLI formulation with Flan-T5 demonstrates a strong performance among others, while (2) timeline construction and event temporal ordering are still challenging tasks for few-shot LLMs. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/kimihiroh/timeset.

------------

`[2403.00998] Predictions from language models for multiple-choice tasks are not robust under variation of scoring methods <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00998>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 21:48:08 GMT
    Polina Tsvilodub, Hening Wang, Sharon Grosch and Michael Franke

This paper systematically compares different methods of deriving item-level predictions of language models for multiple-choice tasks. It compares scoring methods for answer options based on free generation of responses, various probability-based scores, a Likert-scale style rating method, and embedding similarity. In a case study on pragmatic language interpretation, we find that LLM predictions are not robust under variation of method choice, both within a single LLM and across different LLMs. As this variability entails pronounced researcher degrees of freedom in reporting results, knowledge of the variability is crucial to secure robustness of results and research integrity.

------------

`[2403.01002] Attribute Structuring Improves LLM-Based Evaluation of Clinical Text Summaries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01002>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 21:59:03 GMT
    Zelalem Gero, Chandan Singh, Yiqing Xie, Sheng Zhang, Tristan Naumann, Jianfeng Gao, Hoifung Poon

Summarizing clinical text is crucial in health decision-support and clinical research. Large language models (LLMs) have shown the potential to generate accurate clinical text summaries, but still struggle with issues regarding grounding and evaluation, especially in safety-critical domains such as health.
Holistically evaluating text summaries is challenging because they may contain unsubstantiated information. Here, we explore a general mitigation framework using Attribute Structuring (AS), which structures the summary evaluation process. It decomposes the evaluation process into a grounded procedure that uses an LLM for relatively simple structuring and scoring tasks, rather than the full task of holistic summary evaluation. Experiments show that AS consistently improves the correspondence between human annotations and automated metrics in clinical text summarization. Additionally, AS yields interpretations in the form of a short text span corresponding to each output, which enables efficient human auditing, paving the way towards trustworthy evaluation of clinical information in resource-constrained scenarios. We release our code, prompts, and an open-source benchmark at https://github.com/microsoft/attribute-structuring.

------------

`[2403.01031] Peacock: A Family of Arabic Multimodal Large Language Models and Benchmarks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01031>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 23:38:02 GMT
    Fakhraddin Alwajih, El Moatez Billah Nagoudi, Gagan Bhatia, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed

Multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have proven effective in a wide range of tasks requiring complex reasoning and linguistic comprehension.
However, due to a lack of high-quality multimodal resources in languages other than English, success of MLLMs remains relatively limited to English-based settings. This poses significant challenges in developing comparable models for other languages, including even those with large speaker populations such as Arabic. To alleviate this challenge, we introduce a comprehensive family of Arabic MLLMs, dubbed \textit{Peacock}, with strong vision and language capabilities. Through comprehensive qualitative and quantitative analysis, we demonstrate the solid performance of our models on various visual reasoning tasks and further show their emerging dialectal potential. Additionally, we introduce ~\textit{Henna}, a new benchmark specifically designed for assessing MLLMs on aspects related to Arabic culture, setting the first stone for culturally-aware Arabic MLLMs.The GitHub repository for the \textit{Peacock} project is available at \url{https://github.com/UBC-NLP/peacock}.

------------

`[2403.01061] Reading Subtext: Evaluating Large Language Models on Short Story Summarization with Writers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01061>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 01:52:14 GMT
    Melanie Subbiah, Sean Zhang, Lydia B. Chilton, Kathleen McKeown

We evaluate recent Large language Models (LLMs) on the challenging task of summarizing short stories, which can be lengthy, and include nuanced subtext or scrambled timelines. Importantly, we work directly with authors to ensure that the stories have not been shared online (and therefore are unseen by the models), and to obtain informed evaluations of summary quality using judgments from the authors themselves. Through quantitative and qualitative analysis grounded in narrative theory, we compare GPT-4, Claude-2.1, and LLama-2-70B. We find that all three models make faithfulness mistakes in over 50% of summaries and struggle to interpret difficult subtext. However, at their best, the models can provide thoughtful thematic analysis of stories. We additionally demonstrate that LLM judgments of summary quality do not match the feedback from the writers.

------------

`[2403.01063] FaiMA: Feature-aware In-context Learning for Multi-domain Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01063>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 02:00:51 GMT
    Songhua Yang, Xinke Jiang, Hanjie Zhao, Wenxuan Zeng, Hongde Liu, Yuxiang Jia

Multi-domain aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) seeks to capture fine-grained sentiment across diverse domains. While existing research narrowly focuses on single-domain applications constrained by methodological limitations and data scarcity, the reality is that sentiment naturally traverses multiple domains. Although large language models (LLMs) offer a promising solution for ABSA, it is difficult to integrate effectively with established techniques, including graph-based models and linguistics, because modifying their internal architecture is not easy. To alleviate this problem, we propose a novel framework, Feature-aware In-context Learning for Multi-domain ABSA (FaiMA). The core insight of FaiMA is to utilize in-context learning (ICL) as a feature-aware mechanism that facilitates adaptive learning in multi-domain ABSA tasks. Specifically, we employ a multi-head graph attention network as a text encoder optimized by heuristic rules for linguistic, domain, and sentiment features. Through contrastive learning, we optimize sentence representations by focusing on these diverse features. Additionally, we construct an efficient indexing mechanism, allowing FaiMA to stably retrieve highly relevant examples across multiple dimensions for any given input. To evaluate the efficacy of FaiMA, we build the first multi-domain ABSA benchmark dataset. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that FaiMA achieves significant performance improvements in multiple domains compared to baselines, increasing F1 by 2.07% on average. Source code and data sets are anonymously available at https://github.com/SupritYoung/FaiMA.

------------

`[2403.01069] LLMCRIT: Teaching Large Language Models to Use Criteria <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01069>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 02:25:55 GMT
    Weizhe Yuan and Pengfei Liu and Matthias Gall\'e

Humans follow criteria when they execute tasks, and these criteria are directly used to assess the quality of task completion. Therefore, having models learn to use criteria to provide feedback can help humans or models to perform tasks better. However, existing research in this field tends to consider only a limited set of criteria or quality assessment aspects. To fill this gap, we propose a general framework that enables large language models (LLMs) to use comprehensive criteria for a task in delivering natural language feedback on task execution. In particular, we present a model-in-the-loop framework that semi-automatically derives criteria from collected guidelines for different writing tasks and constructs in-context demonstrations for each criterion. We choose three tasks from real-world scenarios to operationalize this idea: paper introduction writing, Python code writing, and Reddit post writing, and evaluate our feedback generation framework using different LLMs.
The results reveal the fine-grained effects of incorporating criteria and demonstrations and provide valuable insights on how to teach LLMs to use criteria more effectively.

------------

`[2403.01081] LAB: Large-Scale Alignment for ChatBots <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01081>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 03:48:37 GMT
    Shivchander Sudalairaj, Abhishek Bhandwaldar, Aldo Pareja, Kai Xu, David D. Cox, Akash Srivastava

This work introduces LAB (Large-scale Alignment for chatBots), a novel methodology designed to overcome the scalability challenges in the instruction-tuning phase of large language model (LLM) training. Leveraging a taxonomy-guided synthetic data generation process and a multi-phase tuning framework, LAB significantly reduces reliance on expensive human annotations and proprietary models like GPT-4. We demonstrate that LAB-trained models can achieve competitive performance across several benchmarks compared to models trained with traditional human-annotated or GPT-4 generated synthetic data.
Thus offering a scalable, cost-effective solution for enhancing LLM capabilities and instruction-following behaviors without the drawbacks of catastrophic forgetting, marking a step forward in the efficient training of LLMs for a wide range of applications.

------------

`[2403.01106] Distilling Text Style Transfer With Self-Explanation From LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01106>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 06:38:15 GMT
    Chiyu Zhang, Honglong Cai, Yuezhang (Music) Li, Yuexin Wu, Le Hou, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed

Text Style Transfer (TST) seeks to alter the style of text while retaining its core content. Given the constraints of limited parallel datasets for TST, we propose CoTeX, a framework that leverages large language models (LLMs) alongside chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting to facilitate TST. CoTeX distills the complex rewriting and reasoning capabilities of LLMs into more streamlined models capable of working with both non-parallel and parallel data. Through experimentation across four TST datasets, CoTeX is shown to surpass traditional supervised fine-tuning and knowledge distillation methods, particularly in low-resource settings. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation, comparing CoTeX against current unsupervised, supervised, in-context learning (ICL) techniques, and instruction-tuned LLMs. Furthermore, CoTeX distinguishes itself by offering transparent explanations for its style transfer process.

------------

`[2403.01139] ParallelPARC: A Scalable Pipeline for Generating Natural-Language Analogies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01139>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:53:40 GMT
    Oren Sultan, Yonatan Bitton, Ron Yosef, Dafna Shahaf

Analogy-making is central to human cognition, allowing us to adapt to novel situations -- an ability that current AI systems still lack. Most analogy datasets today focus on simple analogies (e.g., word analogies); datasets including complex types of analogies are typically manually curated and very small. We believe that this holds back progress in computational analogy. In this work, we design a data generation pipeline, ParallelPARC (Parallel Paragraph Creator) leveraging state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) to create complex, paragraph-based analogies, as well as distractors, both simple and challenging. We demonstrate our pipeline and create ProPara-Logy, a dataset of analogies between scientific processes. We publish a gold-set, validated by humans, and a silver-set, generated automatically. We test LLMs' and humans' analogy recognition in binary and multiple-choice settings, and found that humans outperform the best models (~13% gap) after a light supervision. We demonstrate that our silver-set is useful for training models. Lastly, we show challenging distractors confuse LLMs, but not humans. We hope our pipeline will encourage research in this emerging field.

------------

`[2403.01152] A Survey of AI-generated Text Forensic Systems: Detection, Attribution, and Characterization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01152>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 09:39:13 GMT
    Tharindu Kumarage, Garima Agrawal, Paras Sheth, Raha Moraffah, Aman Chadha, Joshua Garland, Huan Liu

We have witnessed lately a rapid proliferation of advanced Large Language Models (LLMs) capable of generating high-quality text. While these LLMs have revolutionized text generation across various domains, they also pose significant risks to the information ecosystem, such as the potential for generating convincing propaganda, misinformation, and disinformation at scale.
This paper offers a review of AI-generated text forensic systems, an emerging field addressing the challenges of LLM misuses. We present an overview of the existing efforts in AI-generated text forensics by introducing a detailed taxonomy, focusing on three primary pillars: detection, attribution, and characterization. These pillars enable a practical understanding of AI-generated text, from identifying AI-generated content (detection), determining the specific AI model involved (attribution), and grouping the underlying intents of the text (characterization). Furthermore, we explore available resources for AI-generated text forensics research and discuss the evolving challenges and future directions of forensic systems in an AI era.

------------

`[2403.01165] STAR: Constraint LoRA with Dynamic Active Learning for Data-Efficient Fine-Tuning of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01165>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 10:38:10 GMT
    Linhai Zhang, Jialong Wu, Deyu Zhou, Guoqiang Xu

Though Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated the powerful capabilities of few-shot learning through prompting methods, supervised training is still necessary for complex reasoning tasks. Because of their extensive parameters and memory consumption, both Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) methods and Memory-Efficient Fine-Tuning methods have been proposed for LLMs. Nevertheless, the issue of large annotated data consumption, the aim of Data-Efficient Fine-Tuning, remains unexplored. One obvious way is to combine the PEFT method with active learning. However, the experimental results show that such a combination is not trivial and yields inferior results. Through probe experiments, such observation might be explained by two main reasons: uncertainty gap and poor model calibration. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a novel approach to effectively integrate uncertainty-based active learning and LoRA. Specifically, for the uncertainty gap, we introduce a dynamic uncertainty measurement that combines the uncertainty of the base model and the uncertainty of the full model during the iteration of active learning.
For poor model calibration, we incorporate the regularization method during LoRA training to keep the model from being over-confident, and the Monte-Carlo dropout mechanism is employed to enhance the uncertainty estimation.
Experimental results show that the proposed approach outperforms existing baseline models on three complex reasoning tasks.

------------

`[2403.01185] Balancing Exploration and Exploitation in LLM using Soft RLLF for Enhanced Negation Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01185>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 11:54:55 GMT
    Ha-Thanh Nguyen, Ken Satoh

Finetuning approaches in NLP often focus on exploitation rather than exploration, which may lead to suboptimal models. Given the vast search space of natural language, this limited exploration can restrict their performance in complex, high-stakes domains, where accurate negation understanding and logical reasoning abilities are crucial. To address this issue, we leverage Reinforcement Learning from Logical Feedback (RLLF) to create an effective balance between exploration and exploitation in LLMs. Our approach employs an appropriate benchmark dataset for training and evaluation, highlighting the importance of exploration in enhancing negation understanding capabilities. We compare the performance of our RLLF-enhanced LLMs with baseline models trained without RLLF, demonstrating the value of this balanced approach. Furthermore, we showcase the potential of our method in legal AI applications by employing transfer learning and evaluating its impact on negation understanding. Our experimental results exhibit the effectiveness of balancing exploration and exploitation with RLLF in improving LLMs' negation capabilities. This has implications for the development of more accurate, reliable, and logically consistent language models in high-stakes domains.

------------

`[2403.01193] RAGged Edges: The Double-Edged Sword of Retrieval-Augmented Chatbots <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01193>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 12:19:04 GMT
    Philip Feldman. James R. Foulds, Shimei Pan

Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT demonstrate the remarkable progress of artificial intelligence. However, their tendency to hallucinate -- generate plausible but false information -- poses a significant challenge. This issue is critical, as seen in recent court cases where ChatGPT's use led to citations of non-existent legal rulings. This paper explores how Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) can counter hallucinations by integrating external knowledge with prompts. We empirically evaluate RAG against standard LLMs using prompts designed to induce hallucinations. Our results show that RAG increases accuracy in some cases, but can still be misled when prompts directly contradict the model's pre-trained understanding. These findings highlight the complex nature of hallucinations and the need for more robust solutions to ensure LLM reliability in real-world applications. We offer practical recommendations for RAG deployment and discuss implications for the development of more trustworthy LLMs.

------------

`[2403.01197] DMoERM: Recipes of Mixture-of-Experts for Effective Reward Modeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01197>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 12:31:22 GMT
    Shanghaoran Quan

The performance of the reward model (RM) is a critical factor in improving the effectiveness of the large language model (LLM) during alignment fine-tuning. There remain two challenges in RM training: 1) training the same RM using various categories of data may cause its generalization performance to suffer from multi-task disturbance, and 2) the human annotation consistency rate is generally only $60\%$ to $75\%$, causing training data to contain a lot of noise. To tackle these two challenges, we introduced the idea of Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) into the field of RM for the first time. We propose the Double-Layer MoE RM (DMoERM). The outer layer MoE is a sparse model. After classifying an input into task categories, we route it to the corresponding inner layer task-specific model. The inner layer MoE is a dense model. We decompose the specific task into multiple capability dimensions and individually fine-tune a LoRA expert on each one. Their outputs are then synthesized by an MLP to compute the final rewards. To minimize costs, we call a public LLM API to obtain the capability preference labels. The validation on manually labeled datasets confirms that our model attains superior consistency with human preference and outstrips advanced generative approaches. Meanwhile, through BoN sampling and RL experiments, we demonstrate that our model outperforms state-of-the-art ensemble methods of RM and mitigates the overoptimization problem. Our code and dataset are available at: https://github.com/quanshr/DMoERM-v1.

------------

`[2403.01216] API Is Enough: Conformal Prediction for Large Language Models Without Logit-Access <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01216>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:14:45 GMT
    Jiayuan Su, Jing Luo, Hongwei Wang, Lu Cheng

This study aims to address the pervasive challenge of quantifying uncertainty in large language models (LLMs) without logit-access. Conformal Prediction (CP), known for its model-agnostic and distribution-free features, is a desired approach for various LLMs and data distributions. However, existing CP methods for LLMs typically assume access to the logits, which are unavailable for some API-only LLMs. In addition, logits are known to be miscalibrated, potentially leading to degraded CP performance. To tackle these challenges, we introduce a novel CP method that (1) is tailored for API-only LLMs without logit-access; (2) minimizes the size of prediction sets; and (3) ensures a statistical guarantee of the user-defined coverage. The core idea of this approach is to formulate nonconformity measures using both coarse-grained (i.e., sample frequency) and fine-grained uncertainty notions (e.g., semantic similarity).
Experimental results on both close-ended and open-ended Question Answering tasks show our approach can mostly outperform the logit-based CP baselines.

------------

`[2403.01241] IntactKV: Improving Large Language Model Quantization by Keeping Pivot Tokens Intact <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01241>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 16:05:26 GMT
    Ruikang Liu, Haoli Bai, Haokun Lin, Yuening Li, Han Gao, Zhengzhuo Xu, Lu Hou, Jun Yao, Chun Yuan

Large language models (LLMs) excel in natural language processing but demand intensive computation. To mitigate this, various quantization methods have been explored, yet they compromise LLM performance. This paper unveils a previously overlooked type of outlier in LLMs. Such outliers are found to allocate most of the attention scores on initial tokens of input, termed as pivot tokens, which is crucial to the performance of quantized LLMs. Given that, we propose IntactKV to generate the KV cache of pivot tokens losslessly from the full-precision model. The approach is simple and easy to combine with existing quantization solutions. Besides, IntactKV can be calibrated as additional LLM parameters to boost the quantized LLMs further. Mathematical analysis also proves that IntactKV effectively reduces the upper bound of quantization error.
Empirical results show that IntactKV brings consistent improvement and achieves lossless weight-only INT4 quantization on various downstream tasks, leading to the new state-of-the-art for LLM quantization.

------------

`[2403.01244] Mitigating Catastrophic Forgetting in Large Language Models with Self-Synthesized Rehearsal <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01244>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 16:11:23 GMT
    Jianheng Huang, Leyang Cui, Ante Wang, Chengyi Yang, Xinting Liao, Linfeng Song, Junfeng Yao, Jinsong Su

Large language models (LLMs) suffer from catastrophic forgetting during continual learning. Conventional rehearsal-based methods rely on previous training data to retain the model's ability, which may not be feasible in real-world applications. When conducting continual learning based on a publicly-released LLM checkpoint, the availability of the original training data may be non-existent. To address this challenge, we propose a framework called Self-Synthesized Rehearsal (SSR) that uses the LLM to generate synthetic instances for rehearsal. Concretely, we first employ the base LLM for in-context learning to generate synthetic instances. Subsequently, we utilize the latest LLM to refine the instance outputs based on the synthetic inputs, preserving its acquired ability. Finally, we select diverse high-quality synthetic instances for rehearsal in future stages. Experimental results demonstrate that SSR achieves superior or comparable performance compared to conventional rehearsal-based approaches while being more data-efficient.
Besides, SSR effectively preserves the generalization capabilities of LLMs in general domains.

------------

`[2403.01251] Accelerating Greedy Coordinate Gradient via Probe Sampling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01251>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 16:23:44 GMT
    Yiran Zhao, Wenyue Zheng, Tianle Cai, Xuan Long Do, Kenji Kawaguchi, Anirudh Goyal, Michael Shieh

Safety of Large Language Models (LLMs) has become a central issue given their rapid progress and wide applications. Greedy Coordinate Gradient (GCG) is shown to be effective in constructing prompts containing adversarial suffixes to break the presumingly safe LLMs, but the optimization of GCG is time-consuming and limits its practicality. To reduce the time cost of GCG and enable more comprehensive studies of LLM safety, in this work, we study a new algorithm called $\texttt{Probe sampling}$ to accelerate the GCG algorithm. At the core of the algorithm is a mechanism that dynamically determines how similar a smaller draft model's predictions are to the target model's predictions for prompt candidates. When the target model is similar to the draft model, we rely heavily on the draft model to filter out a large number of potential prompt candidates to reduce the computation time. Probe sampling achieves up to $5.6$ times speedup using Llama2-7b and leads to equal or improved attack success rate (ASR) on the AdvBench.

------------

`[2403.01304] Improving the Validity of Automatically Generated Feedback via Reinforcement Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01304>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 20:25:50 GMT
    Alexander Scarlatos, Digory Smith, Simon Woodhead, Andrew Lan

Automatically generating feedback via large language models (LLMs) in intelligent tutoring systems and online learning platforms has the potential to improve the learning outcomes of many students. However, both feedback generation and evaluation are challenging: feedback content has to be valid especially in subjects like math, which requires models to understand the problem, the solution, and where the student's error lies. Feedback also has to be pedagogically valid to reflect effective tutoring strategies, such as explaining possible misconceptions and encouraging the student, among other desirable features. In this work, we address both problems of automatically generating and evaluating feedback while considering both correctness and alignment. First, we propose a rubric for evaluating math feedback and show that GPT-4 is able to effectively use it to annotate human-written and LLM-generated feedback. Second, we propose a framework for feedback generation that optimizes both correctness and alignment using reinforcement learning (RL). Specifically, we use GPT-4's annotations to create preferences over feedback pairs in an augmented dataset for training via direct preference optimization (DPO). We show that our methods significantly increase the correctness and alignment of generated feedback with Llama 2, an open-source LLM, qualitatively analyze our generation and evaluation systems using case studies, and outline several areas for future work.

------------

`[2403.01308] VBART: The Turkish LLM <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01308>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 20:40:11 GMT
    Meliksah Turker, Mehmet Erdi Ari, Aydin Han

We present VBART, the first Turkish sequence-to-sequence Large Language Models (LLMs) pre-trained on a large corpus from scratch. VBART are compact LLMs based on good ideas leveraged from BART and mBART models and come in two sizes, Large and XLarge. Fine-tuned VBART models surpass the prior state-of-the-art results in abstractive text summarization, title generation, text paraphrasing, question answering and question generation tasks. They allow fine-tuning for future text generation tasks and datasets, carving a new path for Turkish Natural Language Processing (NLP) research. Our work shows that having a pre-trained LLM for Turkish outperforms up to 3x multilingual models, improving existing results and providing efficient models for training and inference. Moreover, we show that our monolingual tokenizer is 7x more efficient than OpenAI's multilingual tokenizer. Last but not least, we introduce a method to enlarge an existing pre-trained LLM and question the relevancy of Chinchilla Scaling Law to sequence-to-sequence masked language models. Our fine-tuned models, tokenizer and cleaned web corpus of 135 GB are publicly available at huggingface.co/vngrs-ai.

------------

`[2403.01342] LM4OPT: Unveiling the Potential of Large Language Models in Formulating Mathematical Optimization Problems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01342>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 23:32:33 GMT
    Tasnim Ahmed, Salimur Choudhury

In the rapidly evolving field of natural language processing, the translation of linguistic descriptions into mathematical formulation of optimization problems presents a formidable challenge, demanding intricate understanding and processing capabilities from Large Language Models (LLMs). This study compares prominent LLMs, including GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Llama-2-7b, in zero-shot and one-shot settings for this task. Our findings show GPT-4's superior performance, particularly in the one-shot scenario. A central part of this research is the introduction of `LM4OPT,' a progressive fine-tuning framework for Llama-2-7b that utilizes noisy embeddings and specialized datasets.
However, this research highlights a notable gap in the contextual understanding capabilities of smaller models such as Llama-2-7b compared to larger counterparts, especially in processing lengthy and complex input contexts. Our empirical investigation, utilizing the NL4Opt dataset, unveils that GPT-4 surpasses the baseline performance established by previous research, achieving an F1-score of 0.63, solely based on the problem description in natural language, and without relying on any additional named entity information.
GPT-3.5 follows closely, both outperforming the fine-tuned Llama-2-7b. These findings not only benchmark the current capabilities of LLMs in a novel application area but also lay the groundwork for future improvements in mathematical formulation of optimization problems from natural language input.

------------

`[2403.01382] Automatic Question-Answer Generation for Long-Tail Knowledge <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01382>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 03:06:31 GMT
    Rohan Kumar, Youngmin Kim, Sunitha Ravi, Haitian Sun, Christos Faloutsos, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Minji Yoon

Pretrained Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained significant attention for addressing open-domain Question Answering (QA). While they exhibit high accuracy in answering questions related to common knowledge, LLMs encounter difficulties in learning about uncommon long-tail knowledge (tail entities).
Since manually constructing QA datasets demands substantial human resources, the types of existing QA datasets are limited, leaving us with a scarcity of datasets to study the performance of LLMs on tail entities. In this paper, we propose an automatic approach to generate specialized QA datasets for tail entities and present the associated research challenges. We conduct extensive experiments by employing pretrained LLMs on our newly generated long-tail QA datasets, comparing their performance with and without external resources including Wikipedia and Wikidata knowledge graphs.

------------

`[2403.01390] Right for Right Reasons: Large Language Models for Verifiable Commonsense Knowledge Graph Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01390>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 04:22:13 GMT
    Armin Toroghi, Willis Guo, Mohammad Mahdi Abdollah Pour, Scott Sanner

Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) methods seek to answer Natural Language questions using the relational information stored in Knowledge Graphs (KGs). With the recent advancements of Large Language Models (LLMs) and their remarkable reasoning abilities, there is a growing trend to leverage them for KGQA. However, existing methodologies have only focused on answering factual questions, e.g., "In which city was Silvio Berlusconi's first wife born?", leaving questions involving commonsense reasoning that real-world users may pose more often, e.g., "Do I need separate visas to see the Venus of Willendorf and attend the Olympics this summer?" unaddressed. In this work, we first observe that existing LLM-based methods for KGQA struggle with hallucination on such questions, especially on queries targeting long-tail entities (e.g., non-mainstream and recent entities), thus hindering their applicability in real-world applications especially since their reasoning processes are not easily verifiable. In response, we propose Right for Right Reasons (R3), a commonsense KGQA methodology that allows for a verifiable reasoning procedure by axiomatically surfacing intrinsic commonsense knowledge of LLMs and grounding every factual reasoning step on KG triples. Through experimental evaluations across three different tasks--question answering, claim verification, and preference matching--our findings showcase R3 as a superior approach, outperforming existing methodologies and notably reducing instances of hallucination and reasoning errors.

------------

`[2403.01395] CR-LT-KGQA: A Knowledge Graph Question Answering Dataset Requiring Commonsense Reasoning and Long-Tail Knowledge <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01395>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 04:47:01 GMT
    Willis Guo, Armin Toroghi, Scott Sanner

Knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) is a well-established field that seeks to provide factual answers to natural language (NL) questions by leveraging knowledge graphs (KGs). However, existing KGQA datasets suffer from two significant limitations: (1) no existing KGQA dataset requires commonsense reasoning to arrive at an answer and (2) existing KGQA datasets focus on popular entities for which large language models (LLMs) can directly answer without hallucinating and without leveraging the KG. In this work, we seek a novel KGQA dataset that supports commonsense reasoning and focuses on long-tail entities (e.g., non-mainstream and recent entities) where LLMs frequently hallucinate, and thus create the need for novel methodologies that leverage the KG for factual and attributable commonsense inference. We create a novel Commonsense Reasoning (CR) and Long-Tail (LT) KGQA dataset with two subtasks -- question answering and claim verification -- that address both limitations (1) and (2). We construct CR-LT-KGQA by building extensions to existing reasoning datasets StrategyQA and CREAK over Wikidata. While existing KGQA methods are not applicable due to their lack of commonsense inference support, baseline evaluation of LLMs on CR-LT KGQA demonstrate a high rate of hallucination.
Thus, CR-LT KGQA poses significant challenges for hallucination-prone LLMs, hence paving the way for future commonsense KGQA research to provide accurate and factual answers for long-tail entities in the era of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.01411] OVEL: Large Language Model as Memory Manager for Online Video Entity Linking <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01411>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 06:47:51 GMT
    Haiquan Zhao and Xuwu Wang and Shisong Chen and Zhixu Li and Xin Zheng and Yanghua Xiao

In recent years, multi-modal entity linking (MEL) has garnered increasing attention in the research community due to its significance in numerous multi-modal applications. Video, as a popular means of information transmission, has become prevalent in people's daily lives. However, most existing MEL methods primarily focus on linking textual and visual mentions or offline videos's mentions to entities in multi-modal knowledge bases, with limited efforts devoted to linking mentions within online video content. In this paper, we propose a task called Online Video Entity Linking OVEL, aiming to establish connections between mentions in online videos and a knowledge base with high accuracy and timeliness. To facilitate the research works of OVEL, we specifically concentrate on live delivery scenarios and construct a live delivery entity linking dataset called LIVE. Besides, we propose an evaluation metric that considers timelessness, robustness, and accuracy. Furthermore, to effectively handle OVEL task, we leverage a memory block managed by a Large Language Model and retrieve entity candidates from the knowledge base to augment LLM performance on memory management. The experimental results prove the effectiveness and efficiency of our method.

------------

`[2403.01432] Fine Tuning vs. Retrieval Augmented Generation for Less Popular Knowledge <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01432>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 08:07:55 GMT
    Heydar Soudani, Evangelos Kanoulas, Faegheh Hasibi

Large language models (LLMs) memorize a vast amount of factual knowledge, exhibiting strong performance across diverse tasks and domains. However, it has been observed that the performance diminishes when dealing with less-popular or low-frequency concepts and entities, for example in domain specific applications. The two prominent approaches to enhance the performance of LLMs on low-frequent topics are: Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) and fine-tuning (FT) over synthetic data. This paper explores and evaluates the impact of RAG and FT on customizing LLMs in handling low-frequency entities on question answering task. Our findings indicate that FT significantly boosts the performance across entities of varying popularity, especially in the most and least popular groups, while RAG surpasses other methods. Additionally, the success of both RAG and FT approaches is amplified by advancements in retrieval and data augmentation techniques. We release our data and code at https://github.com/HeydarSoudani/RAGvsFT.

------------

`[2403.01469] KorMedMCQA: Multi-Choice Question Answering Benchmark for Korean Healthcare Professional Licensing Examinations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01469>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 10:31:49 GMT
    Sunjun Kweon, Byungjin Choi, Minkyu Kim, Rae Woong Park, Edward Choi

We introduce KorMedMCQA, the first Korean multiple-choice question answering (MCQA) benchmark derived from Korean healthcare professional licensing examinations, covering from the year 2012 to year 2023. This dataset consists of a selection of questions from the license examinations for doctors, nurses, and pharmacists, featuring a diverse array of subjects. We conduct baseline experiments on various large language models, including proprietary/open-source, multilingual/Korean-additional pretrained, and clinical context pretrained models, highlighting the potential for further enhancements. We make our data publicly available on HuggingFace and provide a evaluation script via LM-Harness, inviting further exploration and advancement in Korean healthcare environments.

------------

`[2403.01481] Infusing Knowledge into Large Language Models with Contextual Prompts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01481>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 11:19:26 GMT
    Kinshuk Vasisht, Balaji Ganesan, Vikas Kumar, Vasudha Bhatnagar

Knowledge infusion is a promising method for enhancing Large Language Models for domain-specific NLP tasks rather than pre-training models over large data from scratch. These augmented LLMs typically depend on additional pre-training or knowledge prompts from an existing knowledge graph, which is impractical in many applications. In contrast, knowledge infusion directly from relevant documents is more generalisable and alleviates the need for structured knowledge graphs while also being useful for entities that are usually not found in any knowledge graph. With this motivation, we propose a simple yet generalisable approach for knowledge infusion by generating prompts from the context in the input text. Our experiments show the effectiveness of our approach which we evaluate by probing the fine-tuned LLMs.

------------

`[2403.01509] Fantastic Semantics and Where to Find Them: Investigating Which Layers of Generative LLMs Reflect Lexical Semantics <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01509>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 13:14:47 GMT
    Zhu Liu, Cunliang Kong, Ying Liu and Maosong Sun

Large language models have achieved remarkable success in general language understanding tasks. However, as a family of generative methods with the objective of next token prediction, the semantic evolution with the depth of these models are not fully explored, unlike their predecessors, such as BERT-like architectures. In this paper, we specifically investigate the bottom-up evolution of lexical semantics for a popular LLM, namely Llama2, by probing its hidden states at the end of each layer using a contextualized word identification task. Our experiments show that the representations in lower layers encode lexical semantics, while the higher layers, with weaker semantic induction, are responsible for prediction. This is in contrast to models with discriminative objectives, such as mask language modeling, where the higher layers obtain better lexical semantics. The conclusion is further supported by the monotonic increase in performance via the hidden states for the last meaningless symbols, such as punctuation, in the prompting strategy.

------------

`[2403.01518] Revisiting Dynamic Evaluation: Online Adaptation for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01518>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 14:03:48 GMT
    Amal Rannen-Triki, Jorg Bornschein, Razvan Pascanu, Marcus Hutter, Andras Gy\"orgy, Alexandre Galashov, Yee Whye Teh, Michalis K. Titsias

We consider the problem of online fine tuning the parameters of a language model at test time, also known as dynamic evaluation. While it is generally known that this approach improves the overall predictive performance, especially when considering distributional shift between training and evaluation data, we here emphasize the perspective that online adaptation turns parameters into temporally changing states and provides a form of context-length extension with memory in weights, more in line with the concept of memory in neuroscience. We pay particular attention to the speed of adaptation (in terms of sample efficiency),sensitivity to the overall distributional drift, and the computational overhead for performing gradient computations and parameter updates. Our empirical study provides insights on when online adaptation is particularly interesting. We highlight that with online adaptation the conceptual distinction between in-context learning and fine tuning blurs: both are methods to condition the model on previously observed tokens.

------------

`[2403.01548] In-Context Sharpness as Alerts: An Inner Representation Perspective for Hallucination Mitigation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01548>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 15:53:41 GMT
    Shiqi Chen, Miao Xiong, Junteng Liu, Zhengxuan Wu, Teng Xiao, Siyang Gao, Junxian He

Large language models (LLMs) frequently hallucinate and produce factual errors, yet our understanding of why they make these errors remains limited. In this study, we delve into the underlying mechanisms of LLM hallucinations from the perspective of inner representations, and discover a salient pattern associated with hallucinations: correct generations tend to have sharper context activations in the hidden states of the in-context tokens, compared to the incorrect ones. Leveraging this insight, we propose an entropy-based metric to quantify the ``sharpness'' among the in-context hidden states and incorporate it into the decoding process to formulate a constrained decoding approach. Experiments on various knowledge-seeking and hallucination benchmarks demonstrate our approach's consistent effectiveness, for example, achieving up to an 8.6 point improvement on TruthfulQA. We believe this study can improve our understanding of hallucinations and serve as a practical solution for hallucination mitigation.

------------

`[2403.01570] SERVAL: Synergy Learning between Vertical Models and LLMs towards Oracle-Level Zero-shot Medical Prediction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01570>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 17:35:52 GMT
    Jiahuan Yan, Jintai Chen, Chaowen Hu, Bo Zheng, Yaojun Hu, Jimeng Sun, Jian Wu

Recent development of large language models (LLMs) has exhibited impressive zero-shot proficiency on generic and common sense questions. However, LLMs' application on domain-specific vertical questions still lags behind, primarily due to the humiliation problems and deficiencies in vertical knowledge.
Furthermore, the vertical data annotation process often requires labor-intensive expert involvement, thereby presenting an additional challenge in enhancing the model's vertical capabilities. In this paper, we propose SERVAL, a synergy learning pipeline designed for unsupervised development of vertical capabilities in both LLMs and small models by mutual enhancement.
Specifically, SERVAL utilizes the LLM's zero-shot outputs as annotations, leveraging its confidence to teach a robust vertical model from scratch.
Reversely, the trained vertical model guides the LLM fine-tuning to enhance its zero-shot capability, progressively improving both models through an iterative process. In medical domain, known for complex vertical knowledge and costly annotations, comprehensive experiments show that, without access to any gold labels, SERVAL with the synergy learning of OpenAI GPT-3.5 and a simple model attains fully-supervised competitive performance across ten widely used medical datasets. These datasets represent vertically specialized medical diagnostic scenarios (e.g., diabetes, heart diseases, COVID-19), highlighting the potential of SERVAL in refining the vertical capabilities of LLMs and training vertical models from scratch, all achieved without the need for annotations.

------------

`[2403.01580] Enhancing Neural Machine Translation of Low-Resource Languages: Corpus Development, Human Evaluation and Explainable AI Architectures <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01580>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 18:08:30 GMT
    S\'eamus Lankford

In the current machine translation (MT) landscape, the Transformer architecture stands out as the gold standard, especially for high-resource language pairs. This research delves into its efficacy for low-resource language pairs including both the English$\leftrightarrow$Irish and English$\leftrightarrow$Marathi language pairs. Notably, the study identifies the optimal hyperparameters and subword model type to significantly improve the translation quality of Transformer models for low-resource language pairs.
The scarcity of parallel datasets for low-resource languages can hinder MT development. To address this, gaHealth was developed, the first bilingual corpus of health data for the Irish language. Focusing on the health domain, models developed using this in-domain dataset exhibited very significant improvements in BLEU score when compared with models from the LoResMT2021 Shared Task. A subsequent human evaluation using the multidimensional quality metrics error taxonomy showcased the superior performance of the Transformer system in reducing both accuracy and fluency errors compared to an RNN-based counterpart.
Furthermore, this thesis introduces adaptNMT and adaptMLLM, two open-source applications streamlined for the development, fine-tuning, and deployment of neural machine translation models. These tools considerably simplify the setup and evaluation process, making MT more accessible to both developers and translators. Notably, adaptNMT, grounded in the OpenNMT ecosystem, promotes eco-friendly natural language processing research by highlighting the environmental footprint of model development. Fine-tuning of MLLMs by adaptMLLM demonstrated advancements in translation performance for two low-resource language pairs: English$\leftrightarrow$Irish and English$\leftrightarrow$Marathi, compared to baselines from the LoResMT2021 Shared Task.

------------

`[2403.01616] Towards Comprehensive Vietnamese Retrieval-Augmented Generation and Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01616>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 21:24:35 GMT
    Nguyen Quang Duc, Le Hai Son, Nguyen Duc Nhan, Nguyen Dich Nhat Minh, Le Thanh Huong, Dinh Viet Sang

This paper presents our contributions towards advancing the state of Vietnamese language understanding and generation through the development and dissemination of open datasets and pre-trained models for Vietnamese Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and Large Language Models (LLMs).

------------

`[2403.01748] Decode Neural signal as Speech <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01748>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 05:55:01 GMT
    Yiqian Yang, Yiqun Duan, Qiang Zhang, Renjing Xu, Hui Xiong

Decoding language from brain dynamics is an important open direction in the realm of brain-computer interface (BCI), especially considering the rapid growth of large language models. Compared to invasive-based signals which require electrode implantation surgery, non-invasive neural signals (e.g. EEG, MEG) have attracted increasing attention considering their safety and generality. However, the exploration is not adequate in three aspects: 1) previous methods mainly focus on EEG but none of the previous works address this problem on MEG with better signal quality; 2) prior works have predominantly used ``teacher-forcing" during generative decoding, which is impractical; 3) prior works are mostly ``BART-based" not fully auto-regressive, which performs better in other sequence tasks. In this paper, we explore the brain-to-text translation of MEG signals in a speech-decoding formation. Here we are the first to investigate a cross-attention-based ``whisper" model for generating text directly from MEG signals without teacher forcing. Our model achieves impressive BLEU-1 scores of 60.30 and 52.89 without pretraining \& teacher-forcing on two major datasets (\textit{GWilliams} and \textit{Schoffelen}). This paper conducts a comprehensive review to understand how speech decoding formation performs on the neural decoding tasks, including pretraining initialization, training \& evaluation set splitting, augmentation, and scaling law.

------------

`[2403.01749] Differentially Private Synthetic Data via Foundation Model APIs 2: Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01749>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 05:57:50 GMT
    Chulin Xie, Zinan Lin, Arturs Backurs, Sivakanth Gopi, Da Yu, Huseyin A Inan, Harsha Nori, Haotian Jiang, Huishuai Zhang, Yin Tat Lee, Bo Li, Sergey Yekhanin

Text data has become extremely valuable due to the emergence of machine learning algorithms that learn from it. A lot of high-quality text data generated in the real world is private and therefore cannot be shared or used freely due to privacy concerns. Generating synthetic replicas of private text data with a formal privacy guarantee, i.e., differential privacy (DP), offers a promising and scalable solution. However, existing methods necessitate DP finetuning of large language models (LLMs) on private data to generate DP synthetic data. This approach is not viable for proprietary LLMs (e.g., GPT-3.5) and also demands considerable computational resources for open-source LLMs. Lin et al. (2024) recently introduced the Private Evolution (PE) algorithm to generate DP synthetic images with only API access to diffusion models. In this work, we propose an augmented PE algorithm, named Aug-PE, that applies to the complex setting of text. We use API access to an LLM and generate DP synthetic text without any model training. We conduct comprehensive experiments on three benchmark datasets. Our results demonstrate that Aug-PE produces DP synthetic text that yields competitive utility with the SOTA DP finetuning baselines. This underscores the feasibility of relying solely on API access of LLMs to produce high-quality DP synthetic texts, thereby facilitating more accessible routes to privacy-preserving LLM applications. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/AI-secure/aug-pe.

------------

`[2403.01754] Derivative-Free Optimization for Low-Rank Adaptation in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01754>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:20:31 GMT
    Feihu Jin, Yin Liu, Ying Tan

Parameter-efficient tuning methods such as LoRA could achieve comparable performance to model tuning by tuning a small portion of the parameters.
However, substantial computational resources are still required, as this process involves calculating gradients and performing back-propagation throughout the model. Much effort has recently been devoted to utilizing the derivative-free optimization method to eschew the computation of gradients and showcase an augmented level of robustness in few-shot settings. In this paper, we prepend the low-rank modules into each self-attention layer of the model and employ two derivative-free optimization methods to optimize these low-rank modules at each layer alternately. Extensive results on various tasks and language models demonstrate that our proposed method achieves substantial improvement and exhibits clear advantages in memory usage and convergence speed compared to existing gradient-based parameter-efficient tuning and derivative-free optimization methods in few-shot settings.

------------

`[2403.01774] WebCiteS: Attributed Query-Focused Summarization on Chinese Web Search Results with Citations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01774>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:06:41 GMT
    Haolin Deng, Chang Wang, Xin Li, Dezhang Yuan, Junlang Zhan, Tianhua Zhou, Jin Ma, Jun Gao, Ruifeng Xu

Enhancing the attribution in large language models (LLMs) is a crucial task.
One feasible approach is to enable LLMs to cite external sources that support their generations. However, existing datasets and evaluation methods in this domain still exhibit notable limitations. In this work, we formulate the task of attributed query-focused summarization (AQFS) and present WebCiteS, a Chinese dataset featuring 7k human-annotated summaries with citations. WebCiteS derives from real-world user queries and web search results, offering a valuable resource for model training and evaluation. Prior works in attribution evaluation do not differentiate between groundedness errors and citation errors. They also fall short in automatically verifying sentences that draw partial support from multiple sources. We tackle these issues by developing detailed metrics and enabling the automatic evaluator to decompose the sentences into sub-claims for fine-grained verification. Our comprehensive evaluation of both open-source and proprietary models on WebCiteS highlights the challenge LLMs face in correctly citing sources, underscoring the necessity for further improvement. The dataset and code will be open-sourced to facilitate further research in this crucial field.

------------

`[2403.01777] NPHardEval4V: A Dynamic Reasoning Benchmark of Multimodal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01777>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:10:31 GMT
    Lizhou Fan, Wenyue Hua, Xiang Li, Kaijie Zhu, Mingyu Jin, Lingyao Li, Haoyang Ling, Jinkui Chi, Jindong Wang, Xin Ma, Yongfeng Zhang

Understanding the reasoning capabilities of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) is an important area of research. In this study, we introduce a dynamic benchmark, NPHardEval4V, aimed at addressing the existing gaps in evaluating the pure reasoning abilities of MLLMs. Our benchmark aims to provide a venue to disentangle the effect of various factors such as image recognition and instruction following, from the overall performance of the models, allowing us to focus solely on evaluating their reasoning abilities. Our findings reveal significant discrepancies in reasoning abilities across different models and highlight the relatively weak performance of MLLMs compared to LLMs in terms of reasoning. We also investigate the impact of different prompting styles, including visual, text, and combined vision and text prompts, on the reasoning abilities of MLLMs, demonstrating the different impacts of multimodal inputs in model performance. Unlike traditional benchmarks, which primarily focus on static evaluations, our benchmark will update on a monthly basis to prevent overfitting and ensure a more accurate evaluation of the models. We believe that this benchmark can aid understand and guide the further development of reasoning abilities in MLLMs. The benchmark dataset and code are available at https://github.com/lizhouf/NPHardEval4V

------------

`[2403.01851] Rethinking LLM Language Adaptation: A Case Study on Chinese Mixtral <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01851>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 09:01:10 GMT
    Yiming Cui, Xin Yao

Mixtral, a representative sparse mixture of experts (SMoE) language model, has received significant attention due to its unique model design and superior performance. Based on Mixtral-8x7B-v0.1, in this paper, we propose Chinese-Mixtral and Chinese-Mixtral-Instruct with improved Chinese language abilities by adopting further pre-training and instruction fine-tuning.
Experimental results show that our Chinese-Mixtral and Chinese-Mixtral-Instruct successfully improve Chinese understanding and generation performance while retaining the original English abilities. Then, we discuss several key questions when performing language adaptation on large language models, including the necessity of extending the language-specific vocabulary and the choice of the initialization model (foundation model v.s. instruction model), by providing empirical results and analysis. We also present the visualizations of each expert to examine their importance on downstream tasks. Our resources are publicly available through \url{https://github.com/ymcui/Chinese-Mixtral}.

------------

`[2403.01858] An Improved Traditional Chinese Evaluation Suite for Foundation Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01858>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 09:13:33 GMT
    Zhi-Rui Tam, Ya-Ting Pai, Yen-Wei Lee, Sega Cheng, Hong-Han Shuai

We present TMMLU+, a comprehensive dataset designed for the Traditional Chinese massive multitask language understanding dataset. TMMLU+ is a multiple-choice question-answering dataset with 66 subjects from elementary to professional level. Compared to its predecessor, TMMLU, TMMLU+ is six times larger and boasts a more balanced subject distribution. We included benchmark results in TMMLU+ from closed-source models and 24 open-weight Chinese large language models of parameters ranging from 1.8B to 72B. Our findings reveal that Traditional Chinese models still trail behind their Simplified Chinese counterparts. Additionally, current large language models have yet to outperform human performance in average scores. We publicly release our dataset and the corresponding benchmark source code.

------------

`[2403.01897] Fostering the Ecosystem of Open Neural Encoders for Portuguese with Albertina PT* Family <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01897>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 09:56:47 GMT
    Rodrigo Santos, Jo\~ao Rodrigues, Lu\'is Gomes, Jo\~ao Silva, Ant\'onio Branco, Henrique Lopes Cardoso, Tom\'as Freitas Os\'orio, Bernardo Leite

To foster the neural encoding of Portuguese, this paper contributes foundation encoder models that represent an expansion of the still very scarce ecosystem of large language models specifically developed for this language that are fully open, in the sense that they are open source and openly distributed for free under an open license for any purpose, thus including research and commercial usages. Like most languages other than English, Portuguese is low-resourced in terms of these foundational language resources, there being the inaugural 900 million parameter Albertina and 335 million Bertimbau. Taking this couple of models as an inaugural set, we present the extension of the ecosystem of state-of-the-art open encoders for Portuguese with a larger, top performance-driven model with 1.5 billion parameters, and a smaller, efficiency-driven model with 100 million parameters. While achieving this primary goal, further results that are relevant for this ecosystem were obtained as well, namely new datasets for Portuguese based on the SuperGLUE benchmark, which we also distribute openly.

------------

`[2403.01924] To Generate or to Retrieve? On the Effectiveness of Artificial Contexts for Medical Open-Domain Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01924>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 10:41:52 GMT
    Giacomo Frisoni, Alessio Cocchieri, Alex Presepi, Gianluca Moro, Zaiqiao Meng

Medical open-domain question answering demands substantial access to specialized knowledge. Recent efforts have sought to decouple knowledge from model parameters, counteracting architectural scaling and allowing for training on common low-resource hardware. The retrieve-then-read paradigm has become ubiquitous, with model predictions grounded on relevant knowledge pieces from external repositories such as PubMed, textbooks, and UMLS. An alternative path, still under-explored but made possible by the advent of domain-specific large language models, entails constructing artificial contexts through prompting. As a result, "to generate or to retrieve" is the modern equivalent of Hamlet's dilemma. This paper presents MedGENIE, the first generate-then-read framework for multiple-choice question answering in medicine. We conduct extensive experiments on MedQA-USMLE, MedMCQA, and MMLU, incorporating a practical perspective by assuming a maximum of 24GB VRAM. MedGENIE sets a new state-of-the-art (SOTA) in the open-book setting of each testbed, even allowing a small-scale reader to outcompete zero-shot closed-book 175B baselines while using up to 706$\times$ fewer parameters. Overall, our findings reveal that generated passages are more effective than retrieved counterparts in attaining higher accuracy.

------------

`[2403.01929] Analyzing and Adapting Large Language Models for Few-Shot Multilingual NLU: Are We There Yet? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01929>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 10:48:13 GMT
    Evgeniia Razumovskaia, Ivan Vuli\'c, Anna Korhonen

Supervised fine-tuning (SFT), supervised instruction tuning (SIT) and in-context learning (ICL) are three alternative, de facto standard approaches to few-shot learning. ICL has gained popularity recently with the advent of LLMs due to its simplicity and sample efficiency. Prior research has conducted only limited investigation into how these approaches work for multilingual few-shot learning, and the focus so far has been mostly on their performance.
In this work, we present an extensive and systematic comparison of the three approaches, testing them on 6 high- and low-resource languages, three different NLU tasks, and a myriad of language and domain setups. Importantly, performance is only one aspect of the comparison, where we also analyse the approaches through the optics of their computational, inference and financial costs. Our observations show that supervised instruction tuning has the best trade-off between performance and resource requirements. As another contribution, we analyse the impact of target language adaptation of pretrained LLMs and find that the standard adaptation approaches can (superficially) improve target language generation capabilities, but language understanding elicited through ICL does not improve and remains limited, with low scores especially for low-resource languages.

------------

`[2403.01969] AS-ES Learning: Towards Efficient CoT Learning in Small Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01969>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:13:59 GMT
    Nuwa Xi, Yuhan Chen, Sendong Zhao, Haochun Wang, Bing Qin and Ting Liu

Chain-of-Thought (CoT) serves as a critical emerging ability in LLMs, especially when it comes to logical reasoning. Attempts have been made to induce such ability in small models as well by distilling from the data with CoT generated by Large Language Models (LLMs). However, existing methods often simply generate and incorporate more data from LLMs and fail to note the importance of efficiently utilizing existing CoT data. We here propose a new training paradigm AS-ES (Abstractive Segments - Extractive Segments) learning, which exploits the inherent information in CoT for iterative generation.
Experiments show that our methods surpass the direct seq2seq training on CoT-extensive tasks like MWP and PET summarization, without data augmentation or altering the model itself. Furthermore, we explore the reason behind the inefficiency of small models in learning CoT and provide an explanation of why AS-ES learning works, giving insights into the underlying mechanism of CoT.

------------

`[2403.01972] Multi-perspective Improvement of Knowledge Graph Completion with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01972>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:16:15 GMT
    Derong Xu, Ziheng Zhang, Zhenxi Lin, Xian Wu, Zhihong Zhu, Tong Xu, Xiangyu Zhao, Yefeng Zheng and Enhong Chen

Knowledge graph completion (KGC) is a widely used method to tackle incompleteness in knowledge graphs (KGs) by making predictions for missing links. Description-based KGC leverages pre-trained language models to learn entity and relation representations with their names or descriptions, which shows promising results. However, the performance of description-based KGC is still limited by the quality of text and the incomplete structure, as it lacks sufficient entity descriptions and relies solely on relation names, leading to sub-optimal results. To address this issue, we propose MPIKGC, a general framework to compensate for the deficiency of contextualized knowledge and improve KGC by querying large language models (LLMs) from various perspectives, which involves leveraging the reasoning, explanation, and summarization capabilities of LLMs to expand entity descriptions, understand relations, and extract structures, respectively. We conducted extensive evaluation of the effectiveness and improvement of our framework based on four description-based KGC models and four datasets, for both link prediction and triplet classification tasks.

------------

`[2403.01976] SciAssess: Benchmarking LLM Proficiency in Scientific Literature Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01976>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:19:28 GMT
    Hengxing Cai, Xiaochen Cai, Junhan Chang, Sihang Li, Lin Yao, Changxin Wang, Zhifeng Gao, Yongge Li, Mujie Lin, Shuwen Yang, Jiankun Wang, Yuqi Yin, Yaqi Li, Linfeng Zhang, Guolin Ke

Recent breakthroughs in Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language understanding and generation, igniting a surge of interest in leveraging these technologies for the nuanced field of scientific literature analysis. Existing benchmarks, however, inadequately evaluate the proficiency of LLMs in the scientific domain, especially in scenarios involving complex comprehension and multimodal data. In response, we introduced SciAssess, a benchmark tailored for the in-depth analysis of scientific literature, crafted to provide a thorough assessment of LLMs' efficacy. SciAssess focuses on evaluating LLMs' abilities in memorization, comprehension, and analysis within scientific contexts. It includes representative tasks from diverse scientific fields, such as general chemistry, organic materials, and alloy materials. And rigorous quality control measures ensure its reliability in terms of correctness, anonymization, and copyright compliance. SciAssess evaluates leading LLMs, including GPT-4, GPT-3.5-turbo, and Gemini, identifying their strengths and areas for improvement and supporting the ongoing development of LLM applications in scientific literature analysis. SciAssess and its resources are made available at https://sci-assess.github.io, offering a valuable tool for advancing LLM capabilities in scientific literature analysis.

------------

`[2403.01999] LLM-Oriented Retrieval Tuner <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01999>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:50:25 GMT
    Si Sun, Hanqing Zhang, Zhiyuan Liu, Jie Bao, Dawei Song

Dense Retrieval (DR) is now considered as a promising tool to enhance the memorization capacity of Large Language Models (LLM) such as GPT3 and GPT-4 by incorporating external memories. However, due to the paradigm discrepancy between text generation of LLM and DR, it is still an open challenge to integrate the retrieval and generation tasks in a shared LLM. In this paper, we propose an efficient LLM-Oriented Retrieval Tuner, namely LMORT, which decouples DR capacity from base LLM and non-invasively coordinates the optimally aligned and uniform layers of the LLM towards a unified DR space, achieving an efficient and effective DR without tuning the LLM itself. The extensive experiments on six BEIR datasets show that our approach could achieve competitive zero-shot retrieval performance compared to a range of strong DR models while maintaining the generation ability of LLM.

------------

`[2403.02078] Automated Generation of Multiple-Choice Cloze Questions for Assessing English Vocabulary Using GPT-turbo 3.5 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02078>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 14:24:47 GMT
    Qiao Wang, Ralph Rose, Naho Orita, Ayaka Sugawara

A common way of assessing language learners' mastery of vocabulary is via multiple-choice cloze (i.e., fill-in-the-blank) questions. But the creation of test items can be laborious for individual teachers or in large-scale language programs. In this paper, we evaluate a new method for automatically generating these types of questions using large language models (LLM). The VocaTT (vocabulary teaching and training) engine is written in Python and comprises three basic steps: pre-processing target word lists, generating sentences and candidate word options using GPT, and finally selecting suitable word options.
To test the efficiency of this system, 60 questions were generated targeting academic words. The generated items were reviewed by expert reviewers who judged the well-formedness of the sentences and word options, adding comments to items judged not well-formed. Results showed a 75% rate of well-formedness for sentences and 66.85% rate for suitable word options. This is a marked improvement over the generator used earlier in our research which did not take advantage of GPT's capabilities. Post-hoc qualitative analysis reveals several points for improvement in future work including cross-referencing part-of-speech tagging, better sentence validation, and improving GPT prompts.

------------

`[2403.02121] Leveraging Weakly Annotated Data for Hate Speech Detection in Code-Mixed Hinglish: A Feasibility-Driven Transfer Learning Approach with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02121>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:27:49 GMT
    Sargam Yadav (1), Abhishek Kaushik (1) and Kevin McDaid (1) ((1) Dundalk Institute of Technology, Dundalk)

The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has advanced the benchmark in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. However, large amounts of labelled training data are required to train LLMs. Furthermore, data annotation and training are computationally expensive and time-consuming. Zero and few-shot learning have recently emerged as viable options for labelling data using large pre-trained models. Hate speech detection in mix-code low-resource languages is an active problem area where the use of LLMs has proven beneficial. In this study, we have compiled a dataset of 100 YouTube comments, and weakly labelled them for coarse and fine-grained misogyny classification in mix-code Hinglish. Weak annotation was applied due to the labor-intensive annotation process. Zero-shot learning, one-shot learning, and few-shot learning and prompting approaches have then been applied to assign labels to the comments and compare them to human-assigned labels. Out of all the approaches, zero-shot classification using the Bidirectional Auto-Regressive Transformers (BART) large model and few-shot prompting using Generative Pre-trained Transformer- 3 (ChatGPT-3) achieve the best results

------------

`[2403.02130] Using LLMs for the Extraction and Normalization of Product Attribute Values <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02130>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:39:59 GMT
    Nick Baumann, Alexander Brinkmann, Christian Bizer

Product offers on e-commerce websites often consist of a textual product title and a textual product description. In order to provide features such as faceted product filtering or content-based product recommendation, the websites need to extract attribute-value pairs from the unstructured product descriptions. This paper explores the potential of using large language models (LLMs), such as OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, to extract and normalize attribute values from product titles and product descriptions. For our experiments, we introduce the WDC Product Attribute-Value Extraction (WDC PAVE) dataset. WDC PAVE consists of product offers from 87 websites that provide schema.org annotations. The offers belong to five different categories, each featuring a specific set of attributes. The dataset provides manually verified attribute-value pairs in two forms: (i) directly extracted values and (ii) normalized attribute values. The normalization of the attribute values requires systems to perform the following types of operations: name expansion, generalization, unit of measurement normalization, and string wrangling. Our experiments demonstrate that GPT-4 outperforms PLM-based extraction methods by 10%, achieving an F1-Score of 91%. For the extraction and normalization of product attribute values, GPT-4 achieves a similar performance to the extraction scenario, while being particularly strong at string wrangling and name expansion.

------------

`[2403.02178] Masked Thought: Simply Masking Partial Reasoning Steps Can Improve Mathematical Reasoning Learning of Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02178>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:21:54 GMT
    Changyu Chen, Xiting Wang, Ting-En Lin, Ang Lv, Yuchuan Wu, Xin Gao, Ji-Rong Wen, Rui Yan and Yongbin Li

In reasoning tasks, even a minor error can cascade into inaccurate results, leading to suboptimal performance of large language models in such domains.
Earlier fine-tuning approaches sought to mitigate this by leveraging more precise supervisory signals from human labeling, larger models, or self-sampling, although at a high cost. Conversely, we develop a method that avoids external resources, relying instead on introducing perturbations to the input. Our training approach randomly masks certain tokens within the chain of thought, a technique we found to be particularly effective for reasoning tasks.
When applied to fine-tuning with GSM8K, this method achieved a 5% improvement in accuracy over standard supervised fine-tuning with a few codes modified and no additional labeling effort. Furthermore, it is complementary to existing methods. When integrated with related data augmentation methods, it leads to an average improvement of 3% improvement in GSM8K accuracy and 1% improvement in MATH accuracy across five datasets of various quality and size, as well as two base models. We further investigate the mechanisms behind this improvement through case studies and quantitative analysis, suggesting that our approach may provide superior support for the model in capturing long-distance dependencies, especially those related to questions. This enhancement could deepen understanding of premises in questions and prior steps. Our code is available at Github.

------------

`[2403.02181] Not all Layers of LLMs are Necessary during Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02181>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:23:58 GMT
    Siqi Fan, Xin Jiang, Xiang Li, Xuying Meng, Peng Han, Shuo Shang, Aixin Sun, Yequan Wang, Zhongyuan Wang

The inference phase of Large Language Models (LLMs) is very expensive. An ideal inference stage of LLMs could utilize fewer computational resources while still maintaining its capabilities (e.g., generalization and in-context learning ability). In this paper, we try to answer the question, "During LLM inference, can we use shallow layers for easy instances; and deep layers for hard ones?" To answer this question, we first indicate that Not all Layers are Necessary during Inference by statistically analyzing the activated layers across tasks. Then, we propose a simple algorithm named AdaInfer to determine the inference termination moment based on the input instance adaptively. More importantly, AdaInfer does not alter LLM parameters and maintains generalizability across tasks. Experiments on well-known LLMs (i.e., Llama2 series and OPT) show that AdaInfer saves an average of 14.8% of computational resources, even up to 50% on sentiment tasks, while maintaining comparable performance. Additionally, this method is orthogonal to other model acceleration techniques, potentially boosting inference efficiency further.

------------

`[2403.02246] PHAnToM: Personality Has An Effect on Theory-of-Mind Reasoning in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02246>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 17:34:34 GMT
    Fiona Anting Tan, Gerard Christopher Yeo, Fanyou Wu, Weijie Xu, Vinija Jain, Aman Chadha, Kokil Jaidka, Yang Liu, See-Kiong Ng

Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) demonstrate that their capabilities are comparable, or even superior, to humans in many tasks in natural language processing. Despite this progress, LLMs are still inadequate at social-cognitive reasoning, which humans are naturally good at. Drawing inspiration from psychological research on the links between certain personality traits and Theory-of-Mind (ToM) reasoning, and from prompt engineering research on the hyper-sensitivity of prompts in affecting LLMs capabilities, this study investigates how inducing personalities in LLMs using prompts affects their ToM reasoning capabilities. Our findings show that certain induced personalities can significantly affect the LLMs' reasoning capabilities in three different ToM tasks. In particular, traits from the Dark Triad have a larger variable effect on LLMs like GPT-3.5, Llama 2, and Mistral across the different ToM tasks. We find that LLMs that exhibit a higher variance across personality prompts in ToM also tends to be more controllable in personality tests: personality traits in LLMs like GPT-3.5, Llama 2 and Mistral can be controllably adjusted through our personality prompts. In today's landscape where role-play is a common strategy when using LLMs, our research highlights the need for caution, as models that adopt specific personas with personalities potentially also alter their reasoning abilities in an unexpected manner.

------------

`[2403.02247] Birbal: An efficient 7B instruct-model fine-tuned with curated datasets <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02247>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 17:34:46 GMT
    Ashvini Kumar Jindal, Pawan Kumar Rajpoot, Ankur Parikh

LLMOps incur significant costs due to hardware requirements, hindering their widespread accessibility. Additionally, a lack of transparency in model training methods and data contributes to the majority of models being non-reproducible. To tackle these challenges, the LLM Efficiency Challenge was introduced at NeurIPS Workshop, aiming to adapt foundation models on a diverse set of tasks via fine-tuning on a single GPU (RTX 4090 or A100 with 40GB) within a 24-hour timeframe. In this system description paper, we introduce Birbal, our Mistral-7B based winning model, fine-tuned on a single RTX 4090 for 16 hours. Birbal's success lies in curating high-quality instructions covering diverse tasks, resulting in a 35% performance improvement over second-best Qwen-14B based submission.

------------

`[2403.02270] FENICE: Factuality Evaluation of summarization based on Natural language Inference and Claim Extraction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02270>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 17:57:18 GMT
    Alessandro Scir\`e and Karim Ghonim and Roberto Navigli

Recent advancements in text summarization, particularly with the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs), have shown remarkable performance. However, a notable challenge persists as a substantial number of automatically-generated summaries exhibit factual inconsistencies, such as hallucinations. In response to this issue, various approaches for the evaluation of consistency for summarization have emerged. Yet, these newly-introduced metrics face several limitations, including lack of interpretability, focus on short document summaries (e.g., news articles), and computational impracticality, especially for LLM-based metrics. To address these shortcomings, we propose Factuality Evaluation of summarization based on Natural language Inference and Claim Extraction (FENICE), a more interpretable and efficient factuality-oriented metric. FENICE leverages an NLI-based alignment between information in the source document and a set of atomic facts, referred to as claims, extracted from the summary. Our metric sets a new state of the art on AGGREFACT, the de-facto benchmark for factuality evaluation. Moreover, we extend our evaluation to a more challenging setting by conducting a human annotation process of long-form summarization.

------------

`[2403.02333] Key-Point-Driven Data Synthesis with its Enhancement on Mathematical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02333>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:58:30 GMT
    Yiming Huang, Xiao Liu, Yeyun Gong, Zhibin Gou, Yelong Shen, Nan Duan, Weizhu Chen

Large language models (LLMs) have shown great potential in complex reasoning tasks, yet their performance is often hampered by the scarcity of high-quality, reasoning-focused training datasets. Addressing this challenge, we propose Key-Point-Driven Data Synthesis (KPDDS), a novel data synthesis framework that synthesizes question-answer pairs by leveraging key points and exemplar pairs from authentic data sources. KPDDS ensures the generation of novel questions with rigorous quality control and substantial scalability. As a result, we present KPMath, the most extensive synthetic dataset tailored for mathematical reasoning to date, comprising over one million question-answer pairs. Utilizing KPMath and augmenting it with additional reasoning-intensive corpora, we create the comprehensive KPMath-Plus dataset. Fine-tuning the Mistral-7B model on KPMath-Plus yields a zero-shot PASS@1 accuracy of 39.3% on the MATH test set, a performance that not only outpaces other finetuned 7B models but also exceeds that of certain 34B models. Our ablation studies further confirm the substantial enhancement in mathematical reasoning across various subtopics, marking a significant stride in LLMs' reasoning capabilities.

------------

`[2403.00858] Direct Alignment of Draft Model for Speculative Decoding with Chat-Fine-Tuned LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00858>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 19:55:06 GMT
    Raghavv Goel, Mukul Gagrani, Wonseok Jeon, Junyoung Park, Mingu Lee, Christopher Lott

Text generation with Large Language Models (LLMs) is known to be memory bound due to the combination of their auto-regressive nature, huge parameter counts, and limited memory bandwidths, often resulting in low token rates. Speculative decoding has been proposed as a solution for LLM inference acceleration.
However, since draft models are often unavailable in the modern open-source LLM families, e.g., for Llama 2 7B, training a high-quality draft model is required to enable inference acceleration via speculative decoding. In this paper, we propose a simple draft model training framework for direct alignment to chat-capable target models. With the proposed framework, we train Llama 2 Chat Drafter 115M, a draft model for Llama 2 Chat 7B or larger, with only 1.64\% of the original size. Our training framework only consists of pretraining, distillation dataset generation, and finetuning with knowledge distillation, with no additional alignment procedure. For the finetuning step, we use instruction-response pairs generated by target model for distillation in plausible data distribution, and propose a new Total Variation Distance++ (TVD++) loss that incorporates variance reduction techniques inspired from the policy gradient method in reinforcement learning. Our empirical results show that Llama 2 Chat Drafter 115M with speculative decoding achieves up to 2.3 block efficiency and 2.4$\times$ speed-up relative to autoregressive decoding on various tasks with no further task-specific fine-tuning.

------------

`[2403.00881] FedRDMA: Communication-Efficient Cross-Silo Federated LLM via Chunked RDMA Transmission <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00881>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 09:14:10 GMT
    Zeling Zhang, Dongqi Cai, Yiran Zhang, Mengwei Xu, Shangguang Wang, Ao Zhou

Communication overhead is a significant bottleneck in federated learning (FL), which has been exaggerated with the increasing size of AI models. In this paper, we propose FedRDMA, a communication-efficient cross-silo FL system that integrates RDMA into the FL communication protocol. To overcome the limitations of RDMA in wide-area networks (WANs), FedRDMA divides the updated model into chunks and designs a series of optimization techniques to improve the efficiency and robustness of RDMA-based communication. We implement FedRDMA atop the industrial federated learning framework and evaluate it on a real-world cross-silo FL scenario. The experimental results show that \sys can achieve up to 3.8$\times$ speedup in communication efficiency compared to traditional TCP/IP-based FL systems.

------------

`[2403.00932] Differentially Private Knowledge Distillation via Synthetic Text Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00932>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 19:22:24 GMT
    James Flemings and Murali Annavaram

Large Language models (LLMs) are achieving state-of-the-art performance in many different downstream tasks. However, the increasing urgency of data privacy requires LLMs to train with Differential Privacy (DP) on private data.
Concurrently it is also necessary to compress LLMs for real-life deployments on resource-constrained devices or latency-sensitive applications. Differential privacy and model compression generally must trade off utility loss to achieve their objectives. Moreover, concurrently achieving both can result in even more utility loss. To this end, we propose a novel differentially private knowledge distillation algorithm that exploits synthetic data generated by a differentially private LLM. The knowledge of a teacher model is transferred onto the student in two ways: one way from the synthetic data itself, the hard labels, and the other way by the output distribution of the teacher model evaluated on the synthetic data, the soft labels. Furthermore, if the teacher and student share a similar architectural structure, we can further distill knowledge by exploiting hidden representations. Our results show that our framework substantially improves the utility over existing baselines with strong privacy parameters, {\epsilon} = 2, validating that we can successfully compress autoregressive LLMs while preserving the privacy of training data.

------------

`[2403.01014] A Case for Validation Buffer in Pessimistic Actor-Critic <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01014>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 22:24:11 GMT
    Michal Nauman, Mateusz Ostaszewski and Marek Cygan

In this paper, we investigate the issue of error accumulation in critic networks updated via pessimistic temporal difference objectives. We show that the critic approximation error can be approximated via a recursive fixed-point model similar to that of the Bellman value. We use such recursive definition to retrieve the conditions under which the pessimistic critic is unbiased.
Building on these insights, we propose Validation Pessimism Learning (VPL) algorithm. VPL uses a small validation buffer to adjust the levels of pessimism throughout the agent training, with the pessimism set such that the approximation error of the critic targets is minimized. We investigate the proposed approach on a variety of locomotion and manipulation tasks and report improvements in sample efficiency and performance.

------------

`[2403.01121] OpenGraph: Towards Open Graph Foundation Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01121>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:05:03 GMT
    Lianghao Xia, Ben Kao and Chao Huang

Graph learning has become indispensable for interpreting and harnessing relational data in diverse fields, ranging from recommendation systems to social network analysis. In this context, a variety of GNNs have emerged as promising methodologies for encoding the structural information of graphs. By effectively capturing the graph's underlying structure, these GNNs have shown great potential in enhancing performance in graph learning tasks, such as link prediction and node classification. However, despite their successes, a significant challenge persists: these advanced methods often face difficulties in generalizing to unseen graph data that significantly differs from the training instances. In this work, our aim is to advance the graph learning paradigm by developing a general graph foundation model. This model is designed to understand the complex topological patterns present in diverse graph data, enabling it to excel in zero-shot graph learning tasks across different downstream datasets. To achieve this goal, we address several key technical challenges in our OpenGraph model. Firstly, we propose a unified graph tokenizer to adapt our graph model to generalize well on unseen graph data, even when the underlying graph properties differ significantly from those encountered during training. Secondly, we develop a scalable graph transformer as the foundational encoder, which effectively captures node-wise dependencies within the global topological context. Thirdly, we introduce a data augmentation mechanism enhanced by a LLM to alleviate the limitations of data scarcity in real-world scenarios. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our framework. By adapting our OpenGraph to new graph characteristics and comprehending the nuances of diverse graphs, our approach achieves remarkable zero-shot graph learning performance across various settings and domains.

------------

`[2403.01133] Evaluating Large Language Models as Virtual Annotators for Time-series Physical Sensing Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01133>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:29:08 GMT
    Aritra Hota, Soumyajit Chatterjee, Sandip Chakraborty

Traditional human-in-the-loop-based annotation for time-series data like inertial data often requires access to alternate modalities like video or audio from the environment. These alternate sources provide the necessary information to the human annotator, as the raw numeric data is often too obfuscated even for an expert. However, this traditional approach has many concerns surrounding overall cost, efficiency, storage of additional modalities, time, scalability, and privacy. Interestingly, recent large language models (LLMs) are also trained with vast amounts of publicly available alphanumeric data, which allows them to comprehend and perform well on tasks beyond natural language processing. Naturally, this opens up a potential avenue to explore LLMs as virtual annotators where the LLMs will be directly provided the raw sensor data for annotation instead of relying on any alternate modality. Naturally, this could mitigate the problems of the traditional human-in-the-loop approach.
Motivated by this observation, we perform a detailed study in this paper to assess whether the state-of-the-art (SOTA) LLMs can be used as virtual annotators for labeling time-series physical sensing data. To perform this in a principled manner, we segregate the study into two major phases. In the first phase, we investigate the challenges an LLM like GPT-4 faces in comprehending raw sensor data. Considering the observations from phase 1, in the next phase, we investigate the possibility of encoding the raw sensor data using SOTA SSL approaches and utilizing the projected time-series data to get annotations from the LLM. Detailed evaluation with four benchmark HAR datasets shows that SSL-based encoding and metric-based guidance allow the LLM to make more reasonable decisions and provide accurate annotations without requiring computationally expensive fine-tuning or sophisticated prompt engineering.

------------

`[2403.01136] LLM-PQ: Serving LLM on Heterogeneous Clusters with Phase-Aware Partition and Adaptive Quantization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01136>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:40:07 GMT
    Juntao Zhao, Borui Wan, Yanghua Peng, Haibin Lin, Chuan Wu

Recent breakthroughs in Large-scale language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance on various tasks. The immense sizes of LLMs have led to very high resource demand and cost for running the models. Though the models are largely served using uniform high-caliber GPUs nowadays, utilizing a heterogeneous cluster with a mix of available high- and low-capacity GPUs can potentially substantially reduce the serving cost. There is a lack of designs to support efficient LLM serving using a heterogeneous cluster, while the current solutions focus on model partition and uniform compression among homogeneous devices. This paper proposes LLM-PQ, a system that advocates adaptive model quantization and phase-aware partition to improve LLM serving efficiency on heterogeneous GPU clusters. We carefully decide on mixed-precision model quantization together with phase-aware model partition and micro-batch sizing in distributed LLM serving with an efficient algorithm, to greatly enhance inference throughput while fulfilling user-specified model quality targets. Extensive experiments on production inference workloads in 11 different clusters demonstrate that LLM-PQ achieves up to 2.88x (2.26x on average) throughput improvement in inference, showing great advantages over state-of-the-art works.

------------

`[2403.01267] Dissecting Language Models: Machine Unlearning via Selective Pruning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01267>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 17:10:44 GMT
    Nicholas Pochinkov and Nandi Schoots

Understanding and shaping the behaviour of Large Language Models (LLMs) is increasingly important as applications become more powerful and more frequently adopted. This paper introduces a machine unlearning method specifically designed for LLMs. We introduce a selective pruning method for LLMs that removes neurons based on their relative importance on a targeted capability compared to overall network performance. This approach is a compute- and data-efficient method for identifying and removing neurons that enable specific behaviours. Our findings reveal that both feed-forward and attention neurons in LLMs are specialized; that is, for specific tasks, certain neurons are more crucial than others.

------------

`[2403.01273] NoMAD-Attention: Efficient LLM Inference on CPUs Through Multiply-add-free Attention <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01273>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 17:29:22 GMT
    Tianyi Zhang, Jonah Wonkyu Yi, Bowen Yao, Zhaozhuo Xu, Anshumali Shrivastava

Large language model inference on Central Processing Units (CPU) is challenging due to the vast quantities of expensive Multiply-Add (MAD) matrix operations in the attention computations. In this paper, we argue that there is a rare gem in modern CPUs, Single-Instruction-Multiple-Data (SIMD) registers, which allow for ultra-low-latency lookups in batch. We leverage this unique capability of CPUs to propose NoMAD-Attention, an efficient attention algorithm that replaces MAD operations with in-register lookups. Through hardware-aware algorithmic designs, NoMAD-Attention achieves the computation of attention scores using repeated fast accesses to SIMD registers despite their highly limited sizes. Moreover, NoMAD-Attention works with pre-trained attention-based LLMs without model finetuning. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that NoMAD-Attention maintains the quality of the original LLMs well, and speeds up the 4-bit quantized LLaMA-7B-based model by up to 2$\times$ at 16k context length. Our results are reproducible at https://github.com/tonyzhang617/nomad-dist.

------------

`[2403.01384] On the Compressibility of Quantized Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01384>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 03:27:07 GMT
    Yu Mao, Weilan Wang, Hongchao Du, Nan Guan, and Chun Jason Xue

Deploying Large Language Models (LLMs) on edge or mobile devices offers significant benefits, such as enhanced data privacy and real-time processing capabilities. However, it also faces critical challenges due to the substantial memory requirement of LLMs. Quantization is an effective way of reducing the model size while maintaining good performance. However, even after quantization, LLMs may still be too big to fit entirely into the limited memory of edge or mobile devices and have to be partially loaded from the storage to complete the inference. In this case, the I/O latency of model loading becomes the bottleneck of the LLM inference latency. In this work, we take a preliminary step of studying applying data compression techniques to reduce data movement and thus speed up the inference of quantized LLM on memory-constrained devices. In particular, we discussed the compressibility of quantized LLMs, the trade-off between the compressibility and performance of quantized LLMs, and opportunities to optimize both of them jointly.

------------

`[2403.01420] The Implicit Bias of Heterogeneity towards Invariance and Causality <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01420>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 07:38:24 GMT
    Yang Xu, Yihong Gu, Cong Fang

It is observed empirically that the large language models (LLM), trained with a variant of regression loss using numerous corpus from the Internet, can unveil causal associations to some extent. This is contrary to the traditional wisdom that ``association is not causation'' and the paradigm of traditional causal inference in which prior causal knowledge should be carefully incorporated into the design of methods. It is a mystery why causality, in a higher layer of understanding, can emerge from the regression task that pursues associations. In this paper, we claim the emergence of causality from association-oriented training can be attributed to the coupling effects from the heterogeneity of the source data, stochasticity of training algorithms, and over-parameterization of the learning models. We illustrate such an intuition using a simple but insightful model that learns invariance, a quasi-causality, using regression loss. To be specific, we consider multi-environment low-rank matrix sensing problems where the unknown r-rank ground-truth d*d matrices diverge across the environments but contain a lower-rank invariant, causal part. In this case, running pooled gradient descent will result in biased solutions that only learn associations in general. We show that running large-batch Stochastic Gradient Descent, whose each batch being linear measurement samples randomly selected from a certain environment, can successfully drive the solution towards the invariant, causal solution under certain conditions. This step is related to the relatively strong heterogeneity of the environments, the large step size and noises in the optimization algorithm, and the over-parameterization of the model. In summary, we unveil another implicit bias that is a result of the symbiosis between the heterogeneity of data and modern algorithms, which is, to the best of our knowledge, first in the literature.

------------

`[2403.01632] Improving LLM Code Generation with Grammar Augmentation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01632>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 22:38:35 GMT
    Shubham Ugare, Tarun Suresh, Hangoo Kang, Sasa Misailovic, Gagandeep Singh

We present SynCode a novel framework for efficient and general syntactical decoding of code with large language models (LLMs). SynCode leverages the grammar of a programming language, utilizing an offline-constructed efficient lookup table called DFA mask store based on language grammar terminals. We demonstrate SynCode's soundness and completeness given the context-free grammar (CFG) of the programming language, presenting its ability to retain syntactically valid tokens while rejecting invalid ones. The framework seamlessly integrates with any language defined by CFG, as evidenced by experiments on CFGs for Python and Go. The results underscore the significant reduction of 96.07% of syntax errors achieved when SynCode is combined with state-of-the-art LLMs, showcasing its substantial impact on enhancing syntactical precision in code generation.
Our code is available at https://github.com/uiuc-focal-lab/syncode.

------------

`[2403.02107] Iterated $Q$-Network: Beyond the One-Step Bellman Operator <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02107>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:07:33 GMT
    Th\'eo Vincent, Daniel Palenicek, Boris Belousov, Jan Peters, Carlo D'Eramo

Value-based Reinforcement Learning (RL) methods rely on the application of the Bellman operator, which needs to be approximated from samples. Most approaches consist of an iterative scheme alternating the application of the Bellman operator and a subsequent projection step onto a considered function space. However, we observe that these algorithms can be improved by considering multiple iterations of the Bellman operator at once. Thus, we introduce iterated $Q$-Networks (iQN), a novel approach that learns a sequence of $Q$-function approximations where each $Q$-function serves as the target for the next one in a chain of consecutive Bellman iterations. We demonstrate that iQN is theoretically sound and show how it can be seamlessly used in value-based and actor-critic methods. We empirically demonstrate its advantages on Atari $2600$ games and in continuous-control MuJoCo environments.

------------

`[2403.02221] TPLLM: A Traffic Prediction Framework Based on Pretrained Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02221>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 17:08:57 GMT
    Yilong Ren, Yue Chen, Shuai Liu, Boyue Wang, Haiyang Yu, and Zhiyong Cui

Traffic prediction constitutes a pivotal facet within the purview of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), and the attainment of highly precise predictions holds profound significance for efficacious traffic management. The precision of prevailing deep learning-driven traffic prediction models typically sees an upward trend with a rise in the volume of training data.
However, the procurement of comprehensive spatiotemporal datasets for traffic is often fraught with challenges, primarily stemming from the substantial costs associated with data collection and retention. Consequently, developing a model that can achieve accurate predictions and good generalization ability in areas with limited historical traffic data is a challenging problem. It is noteworthy that the rapidly advancing pretrained Large Language Models (LLMs) of recent years have demonstrated exceptional proficiency in cross-modality knowledge transfer and few-shot learning. Recognizing the sequential nature of traffic data, similar to language, we introduce TPLLM, a novel traffic prediction framework leveraging LLMs. In this framework, we construct a sequence embedding layer based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and a graph embedding layer based on Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) to extract sequence features and spatial features, respectively. These are subsequently integrated to form inputs that are suitable for LLMs. A Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) fine-tuning approach is applied to TPLLM, thereby facilitating efficient learning and minimizing computational demands. Experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate that TPLLM exhibits commendable performance in both full-sample and few-shot prediction scenarios, effectively supporting the development of ITS in regions with scarce historical traffic data.

------------

`[2403.02310] Taming Throughput-Latency Tradeoff in LLM Inference with Sarathi-Serve <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02310>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:47:08 GMT
    Amey Agrawal, Nitin Kedia, Ashish Panwar, Jayashree Mohan, Nipun Kwatra, Bhargav S. Gulavani, Alexey Tumanov, Ramachandran Ramjee

Each LLM serving request goes through two phases. The first is prefill which processes the entire input prompt to produce one output token and the second is decode which generates the rest of output tokens, one-at-a-time. Prefill iterations have high latency but saturate GPU compute due to parallel processing of the input prompt. In contrast, decode iterations have low latency but also low compute utilization because a decode iteration processes only a single token per request. This makes batching highly effective for decodes and consequently for overall throughput. However, batching multiple requests leads to an interleaving of prefill and decode iterations which makes it challenging to achieve both high throughput and low latency.
We introduce an efficient LLM inference scheduler Sarathi-Serve inspired by the techniques we originally proposed for optimizing throughput in Sarathi.
Sarathi-Serve leverages chunked-prefills from Sarathi to create stall-free schedules that can add new requests in a batch without pausing ongoing decodes.
Stall-free scheduling unlocks the opportunity to improve throughput with large batch sizes while minimizing the effect of batching on latency. Our evaluation shows that Sarathi-Serve improves serving throughput within desired latency SLOs of Mistral-7B by up to 2.6x on a single A100 GPU and up to 6.9x for Falcon-180B on 8 A100 GPUs over Orca and vLLM.

------------

`[2403.00781] ChatDiet: Empowering Personalized Nutrition-Oriented Food Recommender Chatbots through an LLM-Augmented Framework <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00781>`__

::

    Sun, 18 Feb 2024 06:07:17 GMT
    Zhongqi Yang, Elahe Khatibi, Nitish Nagesh, Mahyar Abbasian, Iman Azimi, Ramesh Jain, Amir M. Rahmani

The profound impact of food on health necessitates advanced nutrition-oriented food recommendation services. Conventional methods often lack the crucial elements of personalization, explainability, and interactivity. While Large Language Models (LLMs) bring interpretability and explainability, their standalone use falls short of achieving true personalization. In this paper, we introduce ChatDiet, a novel LLM-powered framework designed specifically for personalized nutrition-oriented food recommendation chatbots. ChatDiet integrates personal and population models, complemented by an orchestrator, to seamlessly retrieve and process pertinent information. The result is a dynamic delivery of personalized and explainable food recommendations, tailored to individual user preferences. Our evaluation of ChatDiet includes a compelling case study, where we establish a causal personal model to estimate individual nutrition effects. Our assessments, including a food recommendation test showcasing a 92\% effectiveness rate, coupled with illustrative dialogue examples, underscore ChatDiet's strengths in explainability, personalization, and interactivity.

------------

`[2403.00782] Ploutos: Towards interpretable stock movement prediction with financial large language model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00782>`__

::

    Sun, 18 Feb 2024 10:28:18 GMT
    Hanshuang Tong, Jun Li, Ning Wu, Ming Gong, Dongmei Zhang, Qi Zhang

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have opened new pathways for many domains. However, the full potential of LLMs in financial investments remains largely untapped. There are two main challenges for typical deep learning-based methods for quantitative finance. First, they struggle to fuse textual and numerical information flexibly for stock movement prediction.
Second, traditional methods lack clarity and interpretability, which impedes their application in scenarios where the justification for predictions is essential. To solve the above challenges, we propose Ploutos, a novel financial LLM framework that consists of PloutosGen and PloutosGPT. The PloutosGen contains multiple primary experts that can analyze different modal data, such as text and numbers, and provide quantitative strategies from different perspectives. Then PloutosGPT combines their insights and predictions and generates interpretable rationales. To generate accurate and faithful rationales, the training strategy of PloutosGPT leverage rearview-mirror prompting mechanism to guide GPT-4 to generate rationales, and a dynamic token weighting mechanism to finetune LLM by increasing key tokens weight. Extensive experiments show our framework outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on both prediction accuracy and interpretability.

------------

`[2403.00784] Utilizing BERT for Information Retrieval: Survey, Applications, Resources, and Challenges <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00784>`__

::

    Sun, 18 Feb 2024 23:22:40 GMT
    Jiajia Wang, Jimmy X. Huang, Xinhui Tu, Junmei Wang, Angela J. Huang, Md Tahmid Rahman Laskar, Amran Bhuiyan

Recent years have witnessed a substantial increase in the use of deep learning to solve various natural language processing (NLP) problems. Early deep learning models were constrained by their sequential or unidirectional nature, such that they struggled to capture the contextual relationships across text inputs. The introduction of bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) leads to a robust encoder for the transformer model that can understand the broader context and deliver state-of-the-art performance across various NLP tasks. This has inspired researchers and practitioners to apply BERT to practical problems, such as information retrieval (IR). A survey that focuses on a comprehensive analysis of prevalent approaches that apply pretrained transformer encoders like BERT to IR can thus be useful for academia and the industry. In light of this, we revisit a variety of BERT-based methods in this survey, cover a wide range of techniques of IR, and group them into six high-level categories: (i) handling long documents, (ii) integrating semantic information, (iii) balancing effectiveness and efficiency, (iv) predicting the weights of terms, (v) query expansion, and (vi) document expansion. We also provide links to resources, including datasets and toolkits, for BERT-based IR systems. A key highlight of our survey is the comparison between BERT's encoder-based models and the latest generative Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, which rely on decoders. Despite the popularity of LLMs, we find that for specific tasks, finely tuned BERT encoders still outperform, and at a lower deployment cost. Finally, we summarize the comprehensive outcomes of the survey and suggest directions for future research in the area.

------------

`[2403.00816] CFRet-DVQA: Coarse-to-Fine Retrieval and Efficient Tuning for Document Visual Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00816>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 01:17:50 GMT
    Jinxu Zhang, Yongqi Yu, Yu Zhang

Document Visual Question Answering (DVQA) is a task that involves responding to queries based on the content of images. Existing work is limited to locating information within a single page and does not facilitate cross-page question-and-answer interaction. Furthermore, the token length limitation imposed on inputs to the model may lead to truncation of segments pertinent to the answer. In this study, we introduce a simple but effective methodology called CFRet-DVQA, which focuses on retrieval and efficient tuning to address this critical issue effectively. For that, we initially retrieve multiple segments from the document that correlate with the question at hand.
Subsequently, we leverage the advanced reasoning abilities of the large language model (LLM), further augmenting its performance through instruction tuning. This approach enables the generation of answers that align with the style of the document labels. The experiments demonstrate that our methodology achieved state-of-the-art or competitive results with both single-page and multi-page documents in various fields.

------------

`[2403.00822] InteraRec: Interactive Recommendations Using Multimodal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00822>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 17:47:57 GMT
    Saketh Reddy Karra, Theja Tulabandhula

Weblogs, comprised of records detailing user activities on any website, offer valuable insights into user preferences, behavior, and interests. Numerous recommendation algorithms, employing strategies such as collaborative filtering, content-based filtering, and hybrid methods, leverage the data mined through these weblogs to provide personalized recommendations to users. Despite the abundance of information available in these weblogs, identifying and extracting pertinent information and key features necessitates extensive engineering endeavors. The intricate nature of the data also poses a challenge for interpretation, especially for non-experts. In this study, we introduce a sophisticated and interactive recommendation framework denoted as InteraRec, which diverges from conventional approaches that exclusively depend on weblogs for recommendation generation. This framework captures high-frequency screenshots of web pages as users navigate through a website. Leveraging state-of-the-art multimodal large language models (MLLMs), it extracts valuable insights into user preferences from these screenshots by generating a user behavioral summary based on predefined keywords. Subsequently, this summary is utilized as input to an LLM-integrated optimization setup to generate tailored recommendations. Through our experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of InteraRec in providing users with valuable and personalized offerings.

------------

`[2403.00843] Enhancing Long-Term Recommendation with Bi-level Learnable Large Language Model Planning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00843>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 13:49:56 GMT
    Wentao Shi, Xiangnan He, Yang Zhang, Chongming Gao, Xinyue Li, Jizhi Zhang, Qifan Wang, Fuli Feng

Traditional recommendation setting tends to excessively cater to users' immediate interests and neglect their long-term engagement. To address it, it is crucial to incorporate planning capabilities into the recommendation decision-making process to develop policies that take into account both immediate interests and long-term engagement. Despite Reinforcement Learning (RL) can learn planning capacity by maximizing cumulative reward, the scarcity of recommendation data presents challenges such as instability and susceptibility to overfitting when training RL models from scratch.
In this context, we propose to leverage the remarkable planning capabilities over sparse data of Large Language Models (LLMs) for long-term recommendation.
The key lies in enabling a language model to understand and apply task-solving principles effectively in personalized recommendation scenarios, as the model's pre-training may not naturally encompass these principles, necessitating the need to inspire or teach the model. To achieve this, we propose a Bi-level Learnable LLM Planner framework, which combines macro-learning and micro-learning through a hierarchical mechanism. The framework includes a Planner and Reflector for acquiring high-level guiding principles and an Actor-Critic component for planning personalization. Extensive experiments validate the superiority of the framework in learning to plan for long-term recommendations.

------------

`[2403.00863] LLM-Ensemble: Optimal Large Language Model Ensemble Method for E-commerce Product Attribute Value Extraction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00863>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 23:03:19 GMT
    Chenhao Fang, Xiaohan Li, Zezhong Fan, Jianpeng Xu, Kaushiki Nag, Evren Korpeoglu, Sushant Kumar, Kannan Achan

Product attribute value extraction is a pivotal component in Natural Language Processing (NLP) and the contemporary e-commerce industry. The provision of precise product attribute values is fundamental in ensuring high-quality recommendations and enhancing customer satisfaction. The recently emerging Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance in numerous attribute extraction tasks, without the need for domain-specific training data. Nevertheless, varying strengths and weaknesses are exhibited by different LLMs due to the diversity in data, architectures, and hyperparameters. This variation makes them complementary to each other, with no single LLM dominating all others. Considering the diverse strengths and weaknesses of LLMs, it becomes necessary to develop an ensemble method that leverages their complementary potentials. In this paper, we propose a novel algorithm called LLM-ensemble to ensemble different LLMs' outputs for attribute value extraction. We iteratively learn the weights for different LLMs to aggregate the labels with weights to predict the final attribute value. Not only can our proposed method be proven theoretically optimal, but it also ensures efficient computation, fast convergence, and safe deployment. We have also conducted extensive experiments with various state-of-the-art LLMs, including Llama2-13B, Llama2-70B, PaLM-2, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4, on Walmart's internal data. Our offline metrics demonstrate that the LLM-ensemble method outperforms all the state-of-the-art single LLMs on Walmart's internal dataset.
This method has been launched in several production models, leading to improved Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV), Click-Through Rate (CTR), Conversion Rate (CVR), and Add-to-Cart Rate (ATC).

------------

`[2403.00867] Gradient Cuff: Detecting Jailbreak Attacks on Large Language Models by Exploring Refusal Loss Landscapes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00867>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 03:29:54 GMT
    Xiaomeng Hu, Pin-Yu Chen, Tsung-Yi Ho

Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming a prominent generative AI tool, where the user enters a query and the LLM generates an answer. To reduce harm and misuse, efforts have been made to align these LLMs to human values using advanced training techniques such as Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). However, recent studies have highlighted the vulnerability of LLMs to adversarial jailbreak attempts aiming at subverting the embedded safety guardrails. To address this challenge, this paper defines and investigates the Refusal Loss of LLMs and then proposes a method called Gradient Cuff to detect jailbreak attempts. Gradient Cuff exploits the unique properties observed in the refusal loss landscape, including functional values and its smoothness, to design an effective two-step detection strategy. Experimental results on two aligned LLMs (LLaMA-2-7B-Chat and Vicuna-7B-V1.5) and six types of jailbreak attacks (GCG, AutoDAN, PAIR, TAP, Base64, and LRL) show that Gradient Cuff can significantly improve the LLM's rejection capability for malicious jailbreak queries, while maintaining the model's performance for benign user queries by adjusting the detection threshold.

------------

`[2403.00871] Teach LLMs to Phish: Stealing Private Information from Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00871>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 06:15:07 GMT
    Ashwinee Panda, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Zhengming Zhang, Yaoqing Yang, Prateek Mittal

When large language models are trained on private data, it can be a significant privacy risk for them to memorize and regurgitate sensitive information. In this work, we propose a new practical data extraction attack that we call "neural phishing". This attack enables an adversary to target and extract sensitive or personally identifiable information (PII), e.g., credit card numbers, from a model trained on user data with upwards of 10% attack success rates, at times, as high as 50%. Our attack assumes only that an adversary can insert as few as 10s of benign-appearing sentences into the training dataset using only vague priors on the structure of the user data.

------------

`[2403.00878] Crimson: Empowering Strategic Reasoning in Cybersecurity through Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00878>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 08:43:43 GMT
    Jiandong Jin, Bowen Tang, Mingxuan Ma, Xiao Liu, Yunfei Wang, Qingnan Lai, Jia Yang, Changling Zhou

We introduces Crimson, a system that enhances the strategic reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) within the realm of cybersecurity.
By correlating CVEs with MITRE ATT&CK techniques, Crimson advances threat anticipation and strategic defense efforts. Our approach includes defining and evaluating cybersecurity strategic tasks, alongside implementing a comprehensive human-in-the-loop data-synthetic workflow to develop the CVE-to-ATT&CK Mapping (CVEM) dataset. We further enhance LLMs' reasoning abilities through a novel Retrieval-Aware Training (RAT) process and its refined iteration, RAT-R.
Our findings demonstrate that an LLM fine-tuned with our techniques, possessing 7 billion parameters, approaches the performance level of GPT-4, showing markedly lower rates of hallucination and errors, and surpassing other models in strategic reasoning tasks. Moreover, domain-specific fine-tuning of embedding models significantly improves performance within cybersecurity contexts, underscoring the efficacy of our methodology. By leveraging Crimson to convert raw vulnerability data into structured and actionable insights, we bolster proactive cybersecurity defenses.

------------

`[2403.00884] Text classification of column headers with a controlled vocabulary: leveraging LLMs for metadata enrichment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00884>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 10:01:36 GMT
    Margherita Martorana, Tobias Kuhn, Lise Stork, Jacco van Ossenbruggen

Traditional dataset retrieval systems index on metadata information rather than on the data values. Thus relying primarily on manual annotations and high-quality metadata, processes known to be labour-intensive and challenging to automate. We propose a method to support metadata enrichment with topic annotations of column headers using three Large Language Models (LLMs): ChatGPT-3.5, GoogleBard and GoogleGemini. We investigate the LLMs ability to classify column headers based on domain-specific topics from a controlled vocabulary. We evaluate our approach by assessing the internal consistency of the LLMs, the inter-machine alignment, and the human-machine agreement for the topic classification task. Additionally, we investigate the impact of contextual information (i.e. dataset description) on the classification outcomes. Our results suggest that ChatGPT and GoogleGemini outperform GoogleBard for internal consistency as well as LLM-human-alignment.
Interestingly, we found that context had no impact on the LLMs performances.
This work proposes a novel approach that leverages LLMs for text classification using a controlled topic vocabulary, which has the potential to facilitate automated metadata enrichment, thereby enhancing dataset retrieval and the Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reusability (FAIR) of research data on the Web.

------------

`[2403.00894] A systematic evaluation of large language models for generating programming code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00894>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 14:43:06 GMT
    Wenpin Hou and Zhicheng Ji

We systematically evaluated the performance of seven large language models in generating programming code using various prompt strategies, programming languages, and task difficulties. GPT-4 substantially outperforms other large language models, including Gemini Ultra and Claude 2. The coding performance of GPT-4 varies considerably with different prompt strategies. In most LeetCode and GeeksforGeeks coding contests evaluated in this study, GPT-4 employing the optimal prompt strategy outperforms 85 percent of human participants.
Additionally, GPT-4 demonstrates strong capabilities in translating code between different programming languages and in learning from past errors. The computational efficiency of the code generated by GPT-4 is comparable to that of human programmers. These results suggest that GPT-4 has the potential to serve as a reliable assistant in programming code generation and software development.

------------

`[2403.00994] Leveraging Prompt-Based Large Language Models: Predicting Pandemic Health Decisions and Outcomes Through Social Media Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00994>`__

::

    Fri, 1 Mar 2024 21:29:32 GMT
    Xiaohan Ding, Buse Carik, Uma Sushmitha Gunturi, Valerie Reyna, and Eugenia H. Rho

We introduce a multi-step reasoning framework using prompt-based LLMs to examine the relationship between social media language patterns and trends in national health outcomes. Grounded in fuzzy-trace theory, which emphasizes the importance of gists of causal coherence in effective health communication, we introduce Role-Based Incremental Coaching (RBIC), a prompt-based LLM framework, to identify gists at-scale. Using RBIC, we systematically extract gists from subreddit discussions opposing COVID-19 health measures (Study 1). We then track how these gists evolve across key events (Study 2) and assess their influence on online engagement (Study 3). Finally, we investigate how the volume of gists is associated with national health trends like vaccine uptake and hospitalizations (Study 4). Our work is the first to empirically link social media linguistic patterns to real-world public health trends, highlighting the potential of prompt-based LLMs in identifying critical online discussion patterns that can form the basis of public health communication strategies.

------------

`[2403.01038] AutoAttacker: A Large Language Model Guided System to Implement Automatic Cyber-attacks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01038>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 00:10:45 GMT
    Jiacen Xu, Jack W. Stokes, Geoff McDonald, Xuesong Bai, David Marshall, Siyue Wang, Adith Swaminathan, Zhou Li

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive results on natural language tasks, and security researchers are beginning to employ them in both offensive and defensive systems. In cyber-security, there have been multiple research efforts that utilize LLMs focusing on the pre-breach stage of attacks like phishing and malware generation. However, so far there lacks a comprehensive study regarding whether LLM-based systems can be leveraged to simulate the post-breach stage of attacks that are typically human-operated, or "hands-on-keyboard" attacks, under various attack techniques and environments.
As LLMs inevitably advance, they may be able to automate both the pre- and post-breach attack stages. This shift may transform organizational attacks from rare, expert-led events to frequent, automated operations requiring no expertise and executed at automation speed and scale. This risks fundamentally changing global computer security and correspondingly causing substantial economic impacts, and a goal of this work is to better understand these risks now so we can better prepare for these inevitable ever-more-capable LLMs on the horizon. On the immediate impact side, this research serves three purposes.
First, an automated LLM-based, post-breach exploitation framework can help analysts quickly test and continually improve their organization's network security posture against previously unseen attacks. Second, an LLM-based penetration test system can extend the effectiveness of red teams with a limited number of human analysts. Finally, this research can help defensive systems and teams learn to detect novel attack behaviors preemptively before their use in the wild....

------------

`[2403.01055] Towards Full Authorship with AI: Supporting Revision with AI-Generated Views <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01055>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 01:11:35 GMT
    Jiho Kim, Ray C. Flanagan, Noelle E. Haviland, ZeAi Sun, Souad N. Yakubu, Edom A. Maru and Kenneth C. Arnold

Large language models (LLMs) are shaping a new user interface (UI) paradigm in writing tools by enabling users to generate text through prompts. This paradigm shifts some creative control from the user to the system, thereby diminishing the user's authorship and autonomy in the writing process. To restore autonomy, we introduce Textfocals, a UI prototype designed to investigate a human-centered approach that emphasizes the user's role in writing. Textfocals supports the writing process by providing LLM-generated summaries, questions, and advice (i.e., LLM views) in a sidebar of a text editor, encouraging reflection and self-driven revision in writing without direct text generation. Textfocals' UI affordances, including contextually adaptive views and scaffolding for prompt selection and customization, offer a novel way to interact with LLMs where users maintain full authorship of their writing. A formative user study with Textfocals showed promising evidence that this approach might help users develop underdeveloped ideas, cater to the rhetorical audience, and clarify their writing. However, the study also showed interaction design challenges related to document navigation and scoping, prompt engineering, and context management. Our work highlights the breadth of the design space of writing support interfaces powered by generative AI that maintain authorship integrity.

------------

`[2403.01131] LLaMoCo: Instruction Tuning of Large Language Models for Optimization Code Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01131>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:21:59 GMT
    Zeyuan Ma, Hongshu Guo, Jiacheng Chen, Guojun Peng, Zhiguang Cao, Yining Ma, Yue-Jiao Gong

Recent research explores optimization using large language models (LLMs) by either iteratively seeking next-step solutions from LLMs or directly prompting LLMs for an optimizer. However, these approaches exhibit inherent limitations, including low operational efficiency, high sensitivity to prompt design, and a lack of domain-specific knowledge. We introduce LLaMoCo, the first instruction-tuning framework designed to adapt LLMs for solving optimization problems in a code-to-code manner. Specifically, we establish a comprehensive instruction set containing well-described problem prompts and effective optimization codes. We then develop a novel two-phase learning strategy that incorporates a contrastive learning-based warm-up procedure before the instruction-tuning phase to enhance the convergence behavior during model fine-tuning. The experiment results demonstrate that a CodeGen (350M) model fine-tuned by our LLaMoCo achieves superior optimization performance compared to GPT-4 Turbo and the other competitors across both synthetic and realistic problem sets. The fine-tuned model and the usage instructions are available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/LLaMoCo-722A.

------------

`[2403.01248] SceneCraft: An LLM Agent for Synthesizing 3D Scene as Blender Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01248>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 16:16:26 GMT
    Ziniu Hu, Ahmet Iscen, Aashi Jain, Thomas Kipf, Yisong Yue, David A. Ross, Cordelia Schmid, Alireza Fathi

This paper introduces SceneCraft, a Large Language Model (LLM) Agent converting text descriptions into Blender-executable Python scripts which render complex scenes with up to a hundred 3D assets. This process requires complex spatial planning and arrangement. We tackle these challenges through a combination of advanced abstraction, strategic planning, and library learning.
SceneCraft first models a scene graph as a blueprint, detailing the spatial relationships among assets in the scene. SceneCraft then writes Python scripts based on this graph, translating relationships into numerical constraints for asset layout. Next, SceneCraft leverages the perceptual strengths of vision-language foundation models like GPT-V to analyze rendered images and iteratively refine the scene. On top of this process, SceneCraft features a library learning mechanism that compiles common script functions into a reusable library, facilitating continuous self-improvement without expensive LLM parameter tuning. Our evaluation demonstrates that SceneCraft surpasses existing LLM-based agents in rendering complex scenes, as shown by its adherence to constraints and favorable human assessments. We also showcase the broader application potential of SceneCraft by reconstructing detailed 3D scenes from the Sintel movie and guiding a video generative model with generated scenes as intermediary control signal.

------------

`[2403.01332] Chaining thoughts and LLMs to learn DNA structural biophysics <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01332>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 22:38:01 GMT
    Tyler D. Ross, Ashwin Gopinath

The future development of an AI scientist, a tool that is capable of integrating a variety of experimental data and generating testable hypotheses, holds immense potential. So far, bespoke machine learning models have been created to specialize in singular scientific tasks, but otherwise lack the flexibility of a general purpose model. Here, we show that a general purpose large language model, chatGPT 3.5-turbo, can be fine-tuned to learn the structural biophysics of DNA. We find that both fine-tuning models to return chain-of-thought responses and chaining together models fine-tuned for subtasks have an enhanced ability to analyze and design DNA sequences and their structures.

------------

`[2403.01437] GPTSee: Enhancing Moment Retrieval and Highlight Detection via Description-Based Similarity Features <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01437>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 08:24:28 GMT
    Yunzhuo Sun, Yifang Xu, Zien Xie, Yukun Shu, and Sidan Du

Moment retrieval (MR) and highlight detection (HD) aim to identify relevant moments and highlights in video from corresponding natural language query.
Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated proficiency in various computer vision tasks. However, existing methods for MR\&HD have not yet been integrated with LLMs. In this letter, we propose a novel two-stage model that takes the output of LLMs as the input to the second-stage transformer encoder-decoder.
First, MiniGPT-4 is employed to generate the detailed description of the video frame and rewrite the query statement, fed into the encoder as new features.
Then, semantic similarity is computed between the generated description and the rewritten queries. Finally, continuous high-similarity video frames are converted into span anchors, serving as prior position information for the decoder. Experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves a state-of-the-art result, and by using only span anchors and similarity scores as outputs, positioning accuracy outperforms traditional methods, like Moment-DETR.

------------

`[2403.01567] ReMatch: Retrieval Enhanced Schema Matching with LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01567>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 17:14:40 GMT
    Eitam Sheetrit, Menachem Brief, Moshik Mishaeli, Oren Elisha

Schema matching is a crucial task in data integration, involving the alignment of a source database schema with a target schema to establish correspondence between their elements. This task is challenging due to textual and semantic heterogeneity, as well as differences in schema sizes. Although machine-learning-based solutions have been explored in numerous studies, they often suffer from low accuracy, require manual mapping of the schemas for model training, or need access to source schema data which might be unavailable due to privacy concerns. In this paper we present a novel method, named ReMatch, for matching schemas using retrieval-enhanced Large Language Models (LLMs). Our method avoids the need for predefined mapping, any model training, or access to data in the source database. In the ReMatch method the tables of the target schema and the attributes of the source schema are first represented as structured passage-based documents. For each source attribute document, we retrieve $J$ documents, representing target schema tables, according to their semantic relevance. Subsequently, we create a prompt for every source table, comprising all its attributes and their descriptions, alongside all attributes from the set of top $J$ target tables retrieved previously. We employ LLMs using this prompt for the matching task, yielding a ranked list of $K$ potential matches for each source attribute. Our experimental results on large real-world schemas demonstrate that ReMatch significantly improves matching capabilities and outperforms other machine learning approaches. By eliminating the requirement for training data, ReMatch becomes a viable solution for real-world scenarios.

------------

`[2403.01575] SARD: A Human-AI Collaborative Story Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01575>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 17:48:42 GMT
    Ahmed Y. Radwan, Khaled M. Alasmari, Omar A. Abdulbagi, Emad A. Alghamdi

Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) has ushered in a new era for storytellers, providing a powerful tool to ignite creativity and explore uncharted narrative territories. As technology continues to advance, the synergy between human creativity and AI-generated content holds the potential to redefine the landscape of storytelling. In this work, we propose SARD, a drag-and-drop visual interface for generating a multi-chapter story using large language models. Our evaluation of the usability of SARD and its creativity support shows that while node-based visualization of the narrative may help writers build a mental model, it exerts unnecessary mental overhead to the writer and becomes a source of distraction as the story becomes more elaborated. We also found that AI generates stories that are less lexically diverse, irrespective of the complexity of the story. We identified some patterns and limitations of our tool that can guide the development of future human-AI co-writing tools.

------------

`[2403.01599] SCHEMA: State CHangEs MAtter for Procedure Planning in Instructional Videos <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01599>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 19:53:06 GMT
    Yulei Niu, Wenliang Guo, Long Chen, Xudong Lin, Shih-Fu Chang

We study the problem of procedure planning in instructional videos, which aims to make a goal-oriented sequence of action steps given partial visual state observations. The motivation of this problem is to learn a structured and plannable state and action space. Recent works succeeded in sequence modeling of steps with only sequence-level annotations accessible during training, which overlooked the roles of states in the procedures. In this work, we point out that State CHangEs MAtter (SCHEMA) for procedure planning in instructional videos. We aim to establish a more structured state space by investigating the causal relations between steps and states in procedures. Specifically, we explicitly represent each step as state changes and track the state changes in procedures. For step representation, we leveraged the commonsense knowledge in large language models (LLMs) to describe the state changes of steps via our designed chain-of-thought prompting. For state change tracking, we align visual state observations with language state descriptions via cross-modal contrastive learning, and explicitly model the intermediate states of the procedure using LLM-generated state descriptions. Experiments on CrossTask, COIN, and NIV benchmark datasets demonstrate that our proposed SCHEMA model achieves state-of-the-art performance and obtains explainable visualizations.

------------

`[2403.01709] Can LLMs Generate Architectural Design Decisions? -An Exploratory Empirical study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01709>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 03:56:14 GMT
    Rudra Dhar, Karthik Vaidhyanathan, Vasudeva Varma

Architectural Knowledge Management (AKM) involves the organized handling of information related to architectural decisions and design within a project or organization. An essential artifact of AKM is the Architecture Decision Records (ADR), which documents key design decisions. ADRs are documents that capture decision context, decision made and various aspects related to a design decision, thereby promoting transparency, collaboration, and understanding.
Despite their benefits, ADR adoption in software development has been slow due to challenges like time constraints and inconsistent uptake. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) may help bridge this adoption gap by facilitating ADR generation. However, the effectiveness of LLM for ADR generation or understanding is something that has not been explored. To this end, in this work, we perform an exploratory study that aims to investigate the feasibility of using LLM for the generation of ADRs given the decision context.
In our exploratory study, we utilize GPT and T5-based models with 0-shot, few-shot, and fine-tuning approaches to generate the Decision of an ADR given its Context. Our results indicate that in a 0-shot setting, state-of-the-art models such as GPT-4 generate relevant and accurate Design Decisions, although they fall short of human-level performance. Additionally, we observe that more cost-effective models like GPT-3.5 can achieve similar outcomes in a few-shot setting, and smaller models such as Flan-T5 can yield comparable results after fine-tuning. To conclude, this exploratory study suggests that LLM can generate Design Decisions, but further research is required to attain human-level generation and establish standardized widespread adoption.

------------

`[2403.02014] Unveiling Hidden Links Between Unseen Security Entities <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02014>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 13:14:39 GMT
    Daniel Alfasi, Tal Shapira, Anat Bremler Barr

The proliferation of software vulnerabilities poses a significant challenge for security databases and analysts tasked with their timely identification, classification, and remediation. With the National Vulnerability Database (NVD) reporting an ever-increasing number of vulnerabilities, the traditional manual analysis becomes untenably time-consuming and prone to errors. This paper introduces VulnScopper, an innovative approach that utilizes multi-modal representation learning, combining Knowledge Graphs (KG) and Natural Language Processing (NLP), to automate and enhance the analysis of software vulnerabilities. Leveraging ULTRA, a knowledge graph foundation model, combined with a Large Language Model (LLM), VulnScopper effectively handles unseen entities, overcoming the limitations of previous KG approaches. We evaluate VulnScopper on two major security datasets, the NVD and the Red Hat CVE database. Our method significantly improves the link prediction accuracy between Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), Common Weakness Enumeration (CWEs), and Common Platform Enumerations (CPEs). Our results show that VulnScopper outperforms existing methods, achieving up to 78% Hits@10 accuracy in linking CVEs to CPEs and CWEs and presenting an 11.7% improvement over large language models in predicting CWE labels based on the Red Hat database. Based on the NVD, only 6.37% of the linked CPEs are being published during the first 30 days; many of them are related to critical and high-risk vulnerabilities which, according to multiple compliance frameworks (such as CISA and PCI), should be remediated within 15-30 days. Our model can uncover new products linked to vulnerabilities, reducing remediation time and improving vulnerability management. We analyzed several CVEs from 2023 to showcase this ability.

------------

`[2403.02238] Towards Intent-Based Network Management: Large Language Models for Intent Extraction in 5G Core Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02238>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 17:29:57 GMT
    Dimitrios Michael Manias and Ali Chouman and Abdallah Shami

The integration of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence (ML/AI) into fifth-generation (5G) networks has made evident the limitations of network intelligence with ever-increasing, strenuous requirements for current and next-generation devices. This transition to ubiquitous intelligence demands high connectivity, synchronicity, and end-to-end communication between users and network operators, and will pave the way towards full network automation without human intervention. Intent-based networking is a key factor in the reduction of human actions, roles, and responsibilities while shifting towards novel extraction and interpretation of automated network management. This paper presents the development of a custom Large Language Model (LLM) for 5G and next-generation intent-based networking and provides insights into future LLM developments and integrations to realize end-to-end intent-based networking for fully automated network intelligence.

------------

`[2403.02253] KnowPhish: Large Language Models Meet Multimodal Knowledge Graphs for Enhancing Reference-Based Phishing Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02253>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 17:38:32 GMT
    Yuexin Li, Chengyu Huang, Shumin Deng, Mei Lin Lock, Tri Cao, Nay Oo, Bryan Hooi, Hoon Wei Lim

Phishing attacks have inflicted substantial losses on individuals and businesses alike, necessitating the development of robust and efficient automated phishing detection approaches. Reference-based phishing detectors (RBPDs), which compare the logos on a target webpage to a known set of logos, have emerged as the state-of-the-art approach. However, a major limitation of existing RBPDs is that they rely on a manually constructed brand knowledge base, making it infeasible to scale to a large number of brands, which results in false negative errors due to the insufficient brand coverage of the knowledge base. To address this issue, we propose an automated knowledge collection pipeline, using which we collect and release a large-scale multimodal brand knowledge base, KnowPhish, containing 20k brands with rich information about each brand. KnowPhish can be used to boost the performance of existing RBPDs in a plug-and-play manner. A second limitation of existing RBPDs is that they solely rely on the image modality, ignoring useful textual information present in the webpage HTML. To utilize this textual information, we propose a Large Language Model (LLM)-based approach to extract brand information of webpages from text. Our resulting multimodal phishing detection approach, KnowPhish Detector (KPD), can detect phishing webpages with or without logos. We evaluate KnowPhish and KPD on a manually validated dataset, and on a field study under Singapore's local context, showing substantial improvements in effectiveness and efficiency compared to state-of-the-art baselines.

------------

`[2403.02302] Beyond Specialization: Assessing the Capabilities of MLLMs in Age and Gender Estimation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02302>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:32:12 GMT
    Maksim Kuprashevich, Grigorii Alekseenko, Irina Tolstykh

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have recently gained immense popularity. Powerful commercial models like ChatGPT-4V and Gemini, as well as open-source ones such as LLaVA, are essentially general-purpose models and are applied to solve a wide variety of tasks, including those in computer vision.
These neural networks possess such strong general knowledge and reasoning abilities that they have proven capable of working even on tasks for which they were not specifically trained. We compared the capabilities of the most powerful MLLMs to date: ShareGPT4V, ChatGPT, LLaVA-Next in a specialized task of age and gender estimation with our state-of-the-art specialized model, MiVOLO. We also updated MiVOLO and provide details and new metrics in this article. This comparison has yielded some interesting results and insights about the strengths and weaknesses of the participating models. Furthermore, we attempted various ways to fine-tune the ShareGPT4V model for this specific task, aiming to achieve state-of-the-art results in this particular challenge.
Although such a model would not be practical in production, as it is incredibly expensive compared to a specialized model like MiVOLO, it could be very useful in some tasks, like data annotation.

------------

`[2403.00801] Self-Retrieval: Building an Information Retrieval System with One Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00801>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 18:45:35 GMT
    Qiaoyu Tang, Jiawei Chen, Bowen Yu, Yaojie Lu, Cheng Fu, Haiyang Yu, Hongyu Lin, Fei Huang, Ben He, Xianpei Han, Le Sun, Yongbin Li

The rise of large language models (LLMs) has transformed the role of information retrieval (IR) systems in the way to humans accessing information.
Due to the isolated architecture and the limited interaction, existing IR systems are unable to fully accommodate the shift from directly providing information to humans to indirectly serving large language models. In this paper, we propose Self-Retrieval, an end-to-end, LLM-driven information retrieval architecture that can fully internalize the required abilities of IR systems into a single LLM and deeply leverage the capabilities of LLMs during IR process. Specifically, Self-retrieval internalizes the corpus to retrieve into a LLM via a natural language indexing architecture. Then the entire retrieval process is redefined as a procedure of document generation and self-assessment, which can be end-to-end executed using a single large language model. Experimental results demonstrate that Self-Retrieval not only significantly outperforms previous retrieval approaches by a large margin, but also can significantly boost the performance of LLM-driven downstream applications like retrieval augumented generation.

------------

`[2403.00806] Enhanced User Interaction in Operating Systems through Machine Learning Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00806>`__

::

    Sat, 24 Feb 2024 12:17:06 GMT
    Chenwei Zhang, Wenran Lu, Chunhe Ni, Hongbo Wang, Jiang Wu

With the large language model showing human-like logical reasoning and understanding ability, whether agents based on the large language model can simulate the interaction behavior of real users, so as to build a reliable virtual recommendation A/B test scene to help the application of recommendation research is an urgent, important and economic value problem. The combination of interaction design and machine learning can provide a more efficient and personalized user experience for products and services. This personalized service can meet the specific needs of users and improve user satisfaction and loyalty. Second, the interactive system can understand the user's views and needs for the product by providing a good user interface and interactive experience, and then use machine learning algorithms to improve and optimize the product. This iterative optimization process can continuously improve the quality and performance of the product to meet the changing needs of users. At the same time, designers need to consider how these algorithms and tools can be combined with interactive systems to provide a good user experience. This paper explores the potential applications of large language models, machine learning and interaction design for user interaction in recommendation systems and operating systems. By integrating these technologies, more intelligent and personalized services can be provided to meet user needs and promote continuous improvement and optimization of products. This is of great value for both recommendation research and user experience applications.

------------

`[2403.00807] Enhancing Cloud-Based Large Language Model Processing with Elasticsearch and Transformer Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00807>`__

::

    Sat, 24 Feb 2024 12:31:22 GMT
    Chunhe Ni, Jiang Wu, Hongbo Wang, Wenran Lu, Chenwei Zhang

Large Language Models (LLMs) are a class of generative AI models built using the Transformer network, capable of leveraging vast datasets to identify, summarize, translate, predict, and generate language. LLMs promise to revolutionize society, yet training these foundational models poses immense challenges. Semantic vector search within large language models is a potent technique that can significantly enhance search result accuracy and relevance.
Unlike traditional keyword-based search methods, semantic search utilizes the meaning and context of words to grasp the intent behind queries and deliver more precise outcomes. Elasticsearch emerges as one of the most popular tools for implementing semantic search an exceptionally scalable and robust search engine designed for indexing and searching extensive datasets. In this article, we delve into the fundamentals of semantic search and explore how to harness Elasticsearch and Transformer models to bolster large language model processing paradigms. We gain a comprehensive understanding of semantic search principles and acquire practical skills for implementing semantic search in real-world model application scenarios.

------------

`[2403.00820] Retrieval Augmented Generation Systems: Automatic Dataset Creation, Evaluation and Boolean Agent Setup <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00820>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 12:56:17 GMT
    Tristan Kenneweg and Philip Kenneweg and Barbara Hammer

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems have seen huge popularity in augmenting Large-Language Model (LLM) outputs with domain specific and time sensitive data. Very recently a shift is happening from simple RAG setups that query a vector database for additional information with every user input to more sophisticated forms of RAG. However, different concrete approaches compete on mostly anecdotal evidence at the moment. In this paper we present a rigorous dataset creation and evaluation workflow to quantitatively compare different RAG strategies. We use a dataset created this way for the development and evaluation of a boolean agent RAG setup: A system in which a LLM can decide whether to query a vector database or not, thus saving tokens on questions that can be answered with internal knowledge. We publish our code and generated dataset online.

------------

`[2403.01457] Logic Rules as Explanations for Legal Case Retrieval <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01457>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 09:22:21 GMT
    Zhongxiang Sun, Kepu Zhang, Weijie Yu, Haoyu Wang, Jun Xu

In this paper, we address the issue of using logic rules to explain the results from legal case retrieval. The task is critical to legal case retrieval because the users (e.g., lawyers or judges) are highly specialized and require the system to provide logical, faithful, and interpretable explanations before making legal decisions. Recently, research efforts have been made to learn explainable legal case retrieval models. However, these methods usually select rationales (key sentences) from the legal cases as explanations, failing to provide faithful and logically correct explanations. In this paper, we propose Neural-Symbolic enhanced Legal Case Retrieval (NS-LCR), a framework that explicitly conducts reasoning on the matching of legal cases through learning case-level and law-level logic rules. The learned rules are then integrated into the retrieval process in a neuro-symbolic manner. Benefiting from the logic and interpretable nature of the logic rules, NS-LCR is equipped with built-in faithful explainability. We also show that NS-LCR is a model-agnostic framework that can be plugged in for multiple legal retrieval models. To showcase NS-LCR's superiority, we enhance existing benchmarks by adding manually annotated logic rules and introducing a novel explainability metric using Large Language Models (LLMs). Our comprehensive experiments reveal NS-LCR's effectiveness for ranking, alongside its proficiency in delivering reliable explanations for legal case retrieval.

------------

`[2107.04771] Similar Cases Recommendation using Legal Knowledge Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.04771>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:46:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Balaji Ganesan [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 10 Jul 2021 06:37:36 UTC (7,636 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:46:51 UTC (4,661 KB)
    Jaspreet Singh Dhani, Ruchika Bhatt, Balaji Ganesan, Parikshet Sirohi, Vasudha Bhatnagar

A legal knowledge graph constructed from court cases, judgments, laws and other legal documents can enable a number of applications like question answering, document similarity, and search. While the use of knowledge graphs for distant supervision in NLP tasks is well researched, using knowledge graphs for applications like case similarity presents challenges. In this work, we describe our solution for predicting similar cases in Indian court judgements. We present our results and also discuss the impact of large language models on this task.

------------

`[2306.03604] Enabling Intelligent Interactions between an Agent and an LLM: A Reinforcement Learning Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03604>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 04:59:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Bin Liu [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Jun 2023 11:49:09 UTC (588 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 8 Jun 2023 07:35:59 UTC (588 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 11 Jun 2023 01:04:34 UTC (905 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 31 Aug 2023 12:44:26 UTC (909 KB)
    [v5] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 04:59:28 UTC (1,318 KB)
    [v6] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 04:05:02 UTC (1,318 KB)
    Bin Hu, Chenyang Zhao, Pu Zhang, Zihao Zhou, Yuanhang Yang, Zenglin Xu, Bin Liu

Large language models (LLMs) encode a vast amount of world knowledge acquired from massive text datasets. Recent studies have demonstrated that LLMs can assist an embodied agent in solving complex sequential decision making tasks by providing high-level instructions. However, interactions with LLMs can be time-consuming. In many practical scenarios, they require a significant amount of storage space that can only be deployed on remote cloud server nodes. Additionally, using commercial LLMs can be costly since they may charge based on usage frequency. In this paper, we explore how to enable intelligent cost-effective interactions between the agent and an LLM. We find that this problem can be naturally formulated by a Markov decision process (MDP), and propose When2Ask, a reinforcement learning based approach that learns when it is necessary to query LLMs for high-level instructions to accomplish a target task. Experiments on MiniGrid and Habitat environments that entail planning sub-goals demonstrate that When2Ask learns to solve target tasks with only a few necessary interactions with an LLM, and significantly reduces interaction costs in testing environments compared with baseline methods. Experiment results also suggest that by learning a mediator model to interact with the LLM, the agent's performance becomes more robust against partial observability of the environment. Our code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2308.09729] MindMap: Knowledge Graph Prompting Sparks Graph of Thoughts in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.09729>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 15:02:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Yilin Wen [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 17 Aug 2023 16:59:50 UTC (1,996 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 22 Aug 2023 17:32:16 UTC (1,998 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 28 Aug 2023 07:37:36 UTC (1,998 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 15 Sep 2023 12:49:00 UTC (1,998 KB)
    [v5] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 15:02:33 UTC (1,445 KB)
    Yilin Wen, Zifeng Wang, Jimeng Sun

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable performance in natural language understanding and generation tasks. However, they often suffer from limitations such as difficulty in incorporating new knowledge, generating hallucinations, and explaining their reasoning process. To address these challenges, we propose a novel prompting pipeline, named \method, that leverages knowledge graphs (KGs) to enhance LLMs' inference and transparency. Our method enables LLMs to comprehend KG inputs and infer with a combination of implicit and external knowledge. Moreover, our method elicits the mind map of LLMs, which reveals their reasoning pathways based on the ontology of knowledge. We evaluate our method on diverse question \& answering tasks, especially in medical domains, and show significant improvements over baselines. We also introduce a new hallucination evaluation benchmark and analyze the effects of different components of our method. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of our method in merging knowledge from LLMs and KGs for combined inference. To reproduce our results and extend the framework further, we make our codebase available at this https URL.

------------

`[2312.05588] Language-assisted Vision Model Debugger: A Sample-Free Approach to Finding and Fixing Bugs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05588>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 09:11:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Chaoquan Jiang [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 9 Dec 2023 14:42:58 UTC (1,660 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 09:11:38 UTC (20,421 KB)
    Chaoquan Jiang, Jinqiang Wang, Rui Hu, Jitao Sang

Vision models with high overall accuracy often exhibit systematic errors in specific scenarios, posing potential serious safety concerns. Diagnosing bugs of vision models is gaining increased attention, however traditional diagnostic approaches require annotation efforts (eg rich metadata accompanying each samples of CelebA). To address this issue,We propose a language-assisted diagnostic method that uses texts instead of images to diagnose bugs in vision models based on multi-modal models (eg CLIP). Our approach connects the embedding space of CLIP with the buggy vision model to be diagnosed; meanwhile, utilizing a shared classifier and the cross-modal transferability of embedding space from CLIP, the text-branch of CLIP become a proxy model to find bugs in the buggy model. The proxy model can classify texts paired with images. During the diagnosis, a Large Language Model (LLM) is employed to obtain task-relevant corpora, and this corpora is used to extract keywords. Descriptions constructed with templates containing these keywords serve as input text to probe errors in the proxy model. Finally, we validate the ability to diagnose existing visual models using language on the Waterbirds and CelebA datasets, we can identify bugs comprehensible to human experts, uncovering not only known bugs but also previously unknown ones.

------------

`[2401.12624] Knowledge Distillation from Language-Oriented to Emergent Communication for Multi-Agent Remote Control <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12624>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 14:15:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Yongjun Kim [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 10:23:13 UTC (3,055 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 14:15:52 UTC (2,944 KB)
    Yongjun Kim, Sejin Seo, Jihong Park, Mehdi Bennis, Seong-Lyun Kim, Junil Choi

In this work, we compare emergent communication (EC) built upon multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MADRL) and language-oriented semantic communication (LSC) empowered by a pre-trained large language model (LLM) using human language. In a multi-agent remote navigation task, with multimodal input data comprising location and channel maps, it is shown that EC incurs high training cost and struggles when using multimodal data, whereas LSC yields high inference computing cost due to the LLM's large size. To address their respective bottlenecks, we propose a novel framework of language-guided EC (LEC) by guiding the EC training using LSC via knowledge distillation (KD). Simulations corroborate that LEC achieves faster travel time while avoiding areas with poor channel conditions, as well as speeding up the MADRL training convergence by up to 61.8% compared to EC.

------------

`[2402.03181] C-RAG: Certified Generation Risks for Retrieval-Augmented Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03181>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 18:13:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Mintong Kang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 16:46:16 UTC (14,509 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 22:19:17 UTC (14,509 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 18:13:54 UTC (14,509 KB)
    Mintong Kang, Nezihe Merve G\"urel, Ning Yu, Dawn Song, Bo Li

Despite the impressive capabilities of large language models (LLMs) across diverse applications, they still suffer from trustworthiness issues, such as hallucinations and misalignments. Retrieval-augmented language models (RAG) have been proposed to enhance the credibility of generations by grounding external knowledge, but the theoretical understandings of their generation risks remains unexplored. In this paper, we answer: 1) whether RAG can indeed lead to low generation risks, 2) how to provide provable guarantees on the generation risks of RAG and vanilla LLMs, and 3) what sufficient conditions enable RAG models to reduce generation risks. We propose C-RAG, the first framework to certify generation risks for RAG models. Specifically, we provide conformal risk analysis for RAG models and certify an upper confidence bound of generation risks, which we refer to as conformal generation risk. We also provide theoretical guarantees on conformal generation risks for general bounded risk functions under test distribution shifts. We prove that RAG achieves a lower conformal generation risk than that of a single LLM when the quality of the retrieval model and transformer is non-trivial. Our intensive empirical results demonstrate the soundness and tightness of our conformal generation risk guarantees across four widely-used NLP datasets on four state-of-the-art retrieval models.

------------

`[2402.07234] CPSDBench: A Large Language Model Evaluation Benchmark and Baseline for Chinese Public Security Domain <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07234>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 01:26:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Xin Tong [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 11 Feb 2024 15:56:03 UTC (341 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 01:26:01 UTC (701 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 12:39:09 UTC (1,470 KB)
    Xin Tong, Bo Jin, Zhi Lin, Binjun Wang, Ting Yu and Qiang Cheng

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant potential and effectiveness across multiple application domains. To assess the performance of mainstream LLMs in public security tasks, this study aims to construct a specialized evaluation benchmark tailored to the Chinese public security domain--CPSDbench. CPSDbench integrates datasets related to public security collected from real-world scenarios, supporting a comprehensive assessment of LLMs across four key dimensions: text classification, information extraction, question answering, and text generation. Furthermore, this study introduces a set of innovative evaluation metrics designed to more precisely quantify the efficacy of LLMs in executing tasks related to public security. Through the in-depth analysis and evaluation conducted in this research, we not only enhance our understanding of the performance strengths and limitations of existing models in addressing public security issues but also provide references for the future development of more accurate and customized LLM models targeted at applications in this field.

------------

`[2402.08939] Premise Order Matters in Reasoning with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08939>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 09:21:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Xinyun Chen [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 04:50:18 UTC (7,955 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 09:21:16 UTC (7,955 KB)
    Xinyun Chen, Ryan A. Chi, Xuezhi Wang, Denny Zhou

Large language models (LLMs) have accomplished remarkable reasoning performance in various domains. However, in the domain of reasoning tasks, we discover a frailty: LLMs are surprisingly brittle to the ordering of the premises, despite the fact that such ordering does not alter the underlying task. In particular, we observe that LLMs achieve the best performance when the premise order aligns with the context required in intermediate reasoning steps. For example, in deductive reasoning tasks, presenting the premises in the same order as the ground truth proof in the prompt (as opposed to random ordering) drastically increases the model's accuracy. We first examine the effect of premise ordering on deductive reasoning on a variety of LLMs, and our evaluation shows that permuting the premise order can cause a performance drop of over 30%. In addition, we release the benchmark R-GSM, based on GSM8K, to examine the ordering effect for mathematical problem-solving, and we again observe a significant drop in accuracy, relative to the original GSM8K benchmark.

------------

`[2402.09099] Exploring Neuron Interactions and Emergence in LLMs: From the Multifractal Analysis Perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09099>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 11:22:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiongye Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 11:20:09 UTC (24,926 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 11:22:38 UTC (25,126 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 10:44:36 UTC (25,126 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 05:33:23 UTC (26,400 KB)
    Xiongye Xiao, Chenyu Zhou, Heng Ping, Defu Cao, Yaxing Li, Yizhuo Zhou, Shixuan Li, Paul Bogdan

Prior studies on the emergence in large models have primarily focused on how the functional capabilities of large language models (LLMs) scale with model size. Our research, however, transcends this traditional paradigm, aiming to deepen our understanding of the emergence within LLMs by placing a special emphasis not just on the model size but more significantly on the complex behavior of neuron interactions during the training process. By introducing the concepts of "self-organization" and "multifractal analysis," we explore how neuron interactions dynamically evolve during training, leading to "emergence," mirroring the phenomenon in natural systems where simple micro-level interactions give rise to complex macro-level behaviors. To quantitatively analyze the continuously evolving interactions among neurons in large models during training, we propose the Neuron-based Multifractal Analysis (NeuroMFA). Utilizing NeuroMFA, we conduct a comprehensive examination of the emergent behavior in LLMs through the lens of both model size and training process, paving new avenues for research into the emergence in large models.

------------

`[2402.18679] Data Interpreter: An LLM Agent For Data Science <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18679>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:58:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Sirui Hong [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 19:49:55 UTC (34,982 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:58:37 UTC (36,808 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 17:26:53 UTC (12,998 KB)
    Sirui Hong, Yizhang Lin, Bangbang Liu, Binhao Wu, Danyang Li, Jiaqi Chen, Jiayi Zhang, Jinlin Wang, Lingyao Zhang, Mingchen Zhuge, Taicheng Guo, Tuo Zhou, Wei Tao, Wenyi Wang, Xiangru Tang, Xiangtao Lu, Xinbing Liang, Yaying Fei, Yuheng Cheng, Zongze Xu, Chenglin Wu, Li Zhang, Min Yang, Xiawu Zheng

Large Language Model (LLM)-based agents have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness. However, their performance can be compromised in data science scenarios that require real-time data adjustment, expertise in optimization due to complex dependencies among various tasks, and the ability to identify logical errors for precise reasoning. In this study, we introduce the Data Interpreter, a solution designed to solve with code that emphasizes three pivotal techniques to augment problem-solving in data science: 1) dynamic planning with hierarchical graph structures for real-time data adaptability;2) tool integration dynamically to enhance code proficiency during execution, enriching the requisite expertise;3) logical inconsistency identification in feedback, and efficiency enhancement through experience recording. We evaluate the Data Interpreter on various data science and real-world tasks. Compared to open-source baselines, it demonstrated superior performance, exhibiting significant improvements in machine learning tasks, increasing from 0.86 to 0.95. Additionally, it showed a 26% increase in the MATH dataset and a remarkable 112% improvement in open-ended tasks. The solution will be released at this https URL.

------------

`[2212.03827] Discovering Latent Knowledge in Language Models Without Supervision <https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.03827>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 21:33:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Collin Burns [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Dec 2022 18:17:56 UTC (1,486 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 21:33:53 UTC (5,120 KB)
    Collin Burns, Haotian Ye, Dan Klein, Jacob Steinhardt

Existing techniques for training language models can be misaligned with the truth: if we train models with imitation learning, they may reproduce errors that humans make; if we train them to generate text that humans rate highly, they may output errors that human evaluators can't detect. We propose circumventing this issue by directly finding latent knowledge inside the internal activations of a language model in a purely unsupervised way. Specifically, we introduce a method for accurately answering yes-no questions given only unlabeled model activations. It works by finding a direction in activation space that satisfies logical consistency properties, such as that a statement and its negation have opposite truth values. We show that despite using no supervision and no model outputs, our method can recover diverse knowledge represented in large language models: across 6 models and 10 question-answering datasets, it outperforms zero-shot accuracy by 4\% on average. We also find that it cuts prompt sensitivity in half and continues to maintain high accuracy even when models are prompted to generate incorrect answers. Our results provide an initial step toward discovering what language models know, distinct from what they say, even when we don't have access to explicit ground truth labels.

------------

`[2304.02313] Personality-aware Human-centric Multimodal Reasoning: A New Task, Dataset and Baselines <https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.02313>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:33:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Yaochen Zhu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 5 Apr 2023 09:09:10 UTC (2,160 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:33:46 UTC (31,009 KB)
    Yaochen Zhu, Xiangqing Shen, Rui Xia

Personality traits, emotions, and beliefs shape individuals' behavioral choices and decision-making processes. However, for one thing, the affective computing community normally focused on predicting personality traits but overlooks their application in behavior prediction. For another, the multimodal reasoning task emphasized the prediction of future states and behaviors but often neglected the incorporation of individual personality traits. In this work, we introduce a new task called Personality-aware Human-centric Multimodal Reasoning (PHMR) (T1), with the goal of forecasting the future behavior of a particular individual using multimodal information from past instances, while integrating personality factors. We accordingly construct a new dataset based on six television shows, encompassing 225 characters and 12k samples. To establish a benchmark for the task, we propose seven baseline methods: three adapted from related tasks, two pre-trained model, and two multimodal large language models. The experimental results demonstrate that incorporating personality traits enhances human-centric multimodal reasoning performance. To further solve the lack of personality annotation in real-life scenes, we introduce an extension task called Personality-predicted Human-centric Multimodal Reasoning task (T2) along with the corresponding dataset and method. We will make our dataset and code available on GitHub.

------------

`[2305.02483] Personalized Abstractive Summarization by Tri-agent Generation Pipeline <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02483>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 1 Mar 2024 23:41:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Wen Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 4 May 2023 01:12:35 UTC (493 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 23:41:24 UTC (10,699 KB)
    Wen Xiao, Yujia Xie, Giuseppe Carenini, Pengcheng He

Tailoring outputs from large language models, like ChatGPT, to implicit user preferences remains a challenge despite their impressive generative capabilities. In this paper, we propose a tri-agent generation pipeline comprising a generator, an instructor, and an editor to enhance output personalization. The generator produces an initial output, the instructor automatically generates editing instructions based on user preferences, and the editor refines the output to align with those preferences. The inference-only large language model (ChatGPT) serves as both the generator and editor, with a smaller model acting as the instructor to guide output generation. We train the instructor using editor-steered reinforcement learning, leveraging feedback from a large-scale editor model to optimize instruction generation. Experimental results on two abstractive summarization datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in generating outputs that better meet user expectations. Code is available at \url{this https URL}

------------

`[2307.15337] Skeleton-of-Thought: Prompting LLMs for Efficient Parallel Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15337>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 02:45:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Xuefei Ning PhD [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 28 Jul 2023 06:31:34 UTC (454 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 8 Oct 2023 03:59:29 UTC (1,680 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 02:45:33 UTC (1,913 KB)
    Xuefei Ning, Zinan Lin, Zixuan Zhou, Zifu Wang, Huazhong Yang, Yu Wang

This work aims at decreasing the end-to-end generation latency of large language models (LLMs). One of the major causes of the high generation latency is the sequential decoding approach adopted by almost all state-of-the-art LLMs. In this work, motivated by the thinking and writing process of humans, we propose Skeleton-of-Thought (SoT), which first guides LLMs to generate the skeleton of the answer, and then conducts parallel API calls or batched decoding to complete the contents of each skeleton point in parallel. Not only does SoT provide considerable speed-ups across 12 LLMs, but it can also potentially improve the answer quality on several question categories. SoT is an initial attempt at data-centric optimization for inference efficiency, and showcases the potential of eliciting high-quality answers by explicitly planning the answer structure in language.

------------

`[2309.04550] Retrieving Evidence from EHRs with LLMs: Possibilities and Challenges <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04550>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 18:48:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Hiba Ahsan [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 8 Sep 2023 18:44:47 UTC (593 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 18:48:02 UTC (346 KB)
    Hiba Ahsan, Denis Jered McInerney, Jisoo Kim, Christopher Potter, Geoffrey Young, Silvio Amir, Byron C. Wallace

Unstructured data in Electronic Health Records (EHRs) often contains critical information -- complementary to imaging -- that could inform radiologists' diagnoses. But the large volume of notes often associated with patients together with time constraints renders manually identifying relevant evidence practically infeasible. In this work we propose and evaluate a zero-shot strategy for using LLMs as a mechanism to efficiently retrieve and summarize unstructured evidence in patient EHR relevant to a given query. Our method entails tasking an LLM to infer whether a patient has, or is at risk of, a particular condition on the basis of associated notes; if so, we ask the model to summarize the supporting evidence. Under expert evaluation, we find that this LLM-based approach provides outputs consistently preferred to a pre-LLM information retrieval baseline. Manual evaluation is expensive, so we also propose and validate a method using an LLM to evaluate (other) LLM outputs for this task, allowing us to scale up evaluation. Our findings indicate the promise of LLMs as interfaces to EHR, but also highlight the outstanding challenge posed by "hallucinations". In this setting, however, we show that model confidence in outputs strongly correlates with faithful summaries, offering a practical means to limit confabulations.

------------

`[2309.04823] FaNS: a Facet-based Narrative Similarity Metric <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04823>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:46:27 GMT
    Submission history From: Shubhra Kanti Karmaker Santu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 9 Sep 2023 15:29:24 UTC (790 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:46:27 UTC (784 KB)
    Mousumi Akter, Shubhra Kanti Karmaker Santu

Similar Narrative Retrieval is a crucial task since narratives are essential for explaining and understanding events, and multiple related narratives often help to create a holistic view of the event of interest. To accurately identify semantically similar narratives, this paper proposes a novel narrative similarity metric called Facet-based Narrative Similarity (FaNS), based on the classic 5W1H facets (Who, What, When, Where, Why, and How), which are extracted by leveraging the state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs). Unlike existing similarity metrics that only focus on overall lexical/semantic match, FaNS provides a more granular matching along six different facets independently and then combines them. To evaluate FaNS, we created a comprehensive dataset by collecting narratives from AllSides, a third-party news portal. Experimental results demonstrate that the FaNS metric exhibits a higher correlation (37\% higher) than traditional text similarity metrics that directly measure the lexical/semantic match between narratives, demonstrating its effectiveness in comparing the finer details between a pair of narratives.

------------

`[2309.11852] Knowledge Sanitization of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11852>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:50:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Yoichi Ishibashi [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 07:49:55 UTC (6,706 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:50:40 UTC (6,707 KB)
    Yoichi Ishibashi, Hidetoshi Shimodaira

We explore a knowledge sanitization approach to mitigate the privacy concerns associated with large language models (LLMs). LLMs trained on a large corpus of Web data can memorize and potentially reveal sensitive or confidential information, raising critical security concerns. Our technique efficiently fine-tunes these models using the Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) method, prompting them to generate harmless responses such as ``I don't know'' when queried about specific information. Experimental results in a closed-book question-answering task show that our straightforward method not only minimizes particular knowledge leakage but also preserves the overall performance of LLMs. These two advantages strengthen the defense against extraction attacks and reduces the emission of harmful content such as hallucinations.

------------

`[2310.02954] DQ-LoRe: Dual Queries with Low Rank Approximation Re-ranking for In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02954>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:38:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Jing Xiong [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 16:44:37 UTC (2,366 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 5 Oct 2023 16:24:58 UTC (2,366 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 19 Oct 2023 02:16:20 UTC (2,366 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 20 Oct 2023 07:50:50 UTC (2,366 KB)
    [v5] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:38:24 UTC (2,523 KB)
    Jing Xiong, Zixuan Li, Chuanyang Zheng, Zhijiang Guo, Yichun Yin, Enze Xie, Zhicheng Yang, Qingxing Cao, Haiming Wang, Xiongwei Han, Jing Tang, Chengming Li, Xiaodan Liang

Recent advances in natural language processing, primarily propelled by Large Language Models (LLMs), have showcased their remarkable capabilities grounded in in-context learning. A promising avenue for guiding LLMs in intricate reasoning tasks involves the utilization of intermediate reasoning steps within the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) paradigm. Nevertheless, the central challenge lies in the effective selection of exemplars for facilitating in-context learning. In this study, we introduce a framework that leverages Dual Queries and Low-rank approximation Re-ranking (DQ-LoRe) to automatically select exemplars for in-context learning. Dual Queries first query LLM to obtain LLM-generated knowledge such as CoT, then query the retriever to obtain the final exemplars via both question and the knowledge. Moreover, for the second query, LoRe employs dimensionality reduction techniques to refine exemplar selection, ensuring close alignment with the input question's knowledge. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that DQ-LoRe significantly outperforms prior state-of-the-art methods in the automatic selection of exemplars for GPT-4, enhancing performance from 92.5% to 94.2%. Our comprehensive analysis further reveals that DQ-LoRe consistently outperforms retrieval-based approaches in terms of both performance and adaptability, especially in scenarios characterized by distribution shifts. DQ-LoRe pushes the boundary of in-context learning and opens up new avenues for addressing complex reasoning challenges. Our code is released at this https URL}{this https URL.

------------

`[2310.06474] Multilingual Jailbreak Challenges in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06474>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 04:03:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Yue Deng [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 09:44:06 UTC (375 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 08:28:35 UTC (703 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 04:03:54 UTC (703 KB)
    Yue Deng, Wenxuan Zhang, Sinno Jialin Pan, Lidong Bing

While large language models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable capabilities across a wide range of tasks, they pose potential safety concerns, such as the ``jailbreak'' problem, wherein malicious instructions can manipulate LLMs to exhibit undesirable behavior. Although several preventive measures have been developed to mitigate the potential risks associated with LLMs, they have primarily focused on English. In this study, we reveal the presence of multilingual jailbreak challenges within LLMs and consider two potential risky scenarios: unintentional and intentional. The unintentional scenario involves users querying LLMs using non-English prompts and inadvertently bypassing the safety mechanisms, while the intentional scenario concerns malicious users combining malicious instructions with multilingual prompts to deliberately attack LLMs. The experimental results reveal that in the unintentional scenario, the rate of unsafe content increases as the availability of languages decreases. Specifically, low-resource languages exhibit about three times the likelihood of encountering harmful content compared to high-resource languages, with both ChatGPT and GPT-4. In the intentional scenario, multilingual prompts can exacerbate the negative impact of malicious instructions, with astonishingly high rates of unsafe output: 80.92\% for ChatGPT and 40.71\% for GPT-4. To handle such a challenge in the multilingual context, we propose a novel \textsc{Self-Defense} framework that automatically generates multilingual training data for safety fine-tuning. Experimental results show that ChatGPT fine-tuned with such data can achieve a substantial reduction in unsafe content generation. Data is available at \url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2310.11053] Denevil: Towards Deciphering and Navigating the Ethical Values of Large Language Models via Instruction Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.11053>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:14:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Shitong Duan [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 17 Oct 2023 07:42:40 UTC (1,461 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 30 Oct 2023 02:30:35 UTC (1,462 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:14:10 UTC (1,481 KB)
    Shitong Duan, Xiaoyuan Yi, Peng Zhang, Tun Lu, Xing Xie, Ning Gu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have made unprecedented breakthroughs, yet their increasing integration into everyday life might raise societal risks due to generated unethical content. Despite extensive study on specific issues like bias, the intrinsic values of LLMs remain largely unexplored from a moral philosophy perspective. This work delves into ethical values utilizing Moral Foundation Theory. Moving beyond conventional discriminative evaluations with poor reliability, we propose DeNEVIL, a novel prompt generation algorithm tailored to dynamically exploit LLMs' value vulnerabilities and elicit the violation of ethics in a generative manner, revealing their underlying value inclinations. On such a basis, we construct MoralPrompt, a high-quality dataset comprising 2,397 prompts covering 500+ value principles, and then benchmark the intrinsic values across a spectrum of LLMs. We discovered that most models are essentially misaligned, necessitating further ethical value alignment. In response, we develop VILMO, an in-context alignment method that substantially enhances the value compliance of LLM outputs by learning to generate appropriate value instructions, outperforming existing competitors. Our methods are suitable for black-box and open-source models, offering a promising initial step in studying the ethical values of LLMs.

------------

`[2311.05112] A Survey of Large Language Models in Medicine: Progress, Application, and Challenge <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05112>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 01:15:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Fenglin Liu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 9 Nov 2023 02:55:58 UTC (48 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Dec 2023 18:10:20 UTC (199 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 06:48:24 UTC (417 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 01:15:36 UTC (652 KB)
    Hongjian Zhou, Fenglin Liu, Boyang Gu, Xinyu Zou, Jinfa Huang, Jinge Wu, Yiru Li, Sam S. Chen, Peilin Zhou, Junling Liu, Yining Hua, Chengfeng Mao, Chenyu You, Xian Wu, Yefeng Zheng, Lei Clifton, Zheng Li, Jiebo Luo, David A. Clifton

Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have received substantial attention due to their capabilities for understanding and generating human language. While there has been a burgeoning trend in research focusing on the employment of LLMs in supporting different medical tasks (e.g., enhancing clinical diagnostics and providing medical education), a review of these efforts, particularly their development, practical applications, and outcomes in medicine, remains scarce. Therefore, this review aims to provide a detailed overview of the development and deployment of LLMs in medicine, including the challenges and opportunities they face. In terms of development, we provide a detailed introduction to the principles of existing medical LLMs, including their basic model structures, number of parameters, and sources and scales of data used for model development. It serves as a guide for practitioners in developing medical LLMs tailored to their specific needs. In terms of deployment, we offer a comparison of the performance of different LLMs across various medical tasks, and further compare them with state-of-the-art lightweight models, aiming to provide an understanding of the advantages and limitations of LLMs in medicine. Overall, in this review, we address the following questions: 1) What are the practices for developing medical LLMs 2) How to measure the medical task performance of LLMs in a medical setting? 3) How have medical LLMs been employed in real-world practice? 4) What challenges arise from the use of medical LLMs? and 5) How to more effectively develop and deploy medical LLMs? By answering these questions, this review aims to provide insights into the opportunities for LLMs in medicine and serve as a practical resource. We also maintain a regularly updated list of practical guides on medical LLMs at: this https URL.

------------

`[2311.09033] MELA: Multilingual Evaluation of Linguistic Acceptability <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09033>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 06:37:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Ziyin Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 15:25:28 UTC (472 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 06:37:11 UTC (677 KB)
    Ziyin Zhang and Yikang Liu and Weifang Huang and Junyu Mao and Rui Wang and Hai Hu

Recent benchmarks for Large Language Models (LLMs) have mostly focused on application-driven tasks such as complex reasoning and code generation, and this has led to a scarcity in purely linguistic evaluation of LLMs. Against this background, we introduce Multilingual Evaluation of Linguistic Acceptability -- MELA, the first multilingual benchmark on linguistic acceptability with 48K samples covering 10 languages from a diverse set of language families. We establish baselines of commonly used LLMs along with supervised models, and conduct cross-lingual transfer and multi-task learning experiments with XLM-R. In pursuit of multilingual interpretability, we analyze the weights of fine-tuned XLM-R to explore the possibility of identifying transfer difficulty between languages. Our results show that ChatGPT benefits much from in-context examples but still lags behind fine-tuned XLM-R, while the performance of GPT-4 is on par with fine-tuned XLM-R even in zero-shot setting. Cross-lingual and multi-task learning experiments show that unlike semantic tasks, in-language training data is crucial in acceptability judgements. Results in layerwise probing indicate that the upper layers of XLM-R become a task-specific but language-agnostic region for multilingual acceptability judgment. We also introduce the concept of conflicting weight, which could be a potential indicator for the difficulty of cross-lingual transfer between languages. Our data will be available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.09800] $\textit{Dial BeInfo for Faithfulness}$: Improving Factuality of Information-Seeking Dialogue via Behavioural Fine-Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09800>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 14:35:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Evgeniia Razumovskaia [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 11:25:44 UTC (8,112 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 14:35:59 UTC (8,543 KB)
    Evgeniia Razumovskaia, Ivan Vuli\'c, Pavle Markovi\'c, Tomasz Cichy, Qian Zheng, Tsung-Hsien Wen, Pawe{\l} Budzianowski

Factuality is a crucial requirement in information seeking dialogue: the system should respond to the user's queries so that the responses are meaningful and aligned with the knowledge provided to the system. However, most modern large language models suffer from hallucinations, that is, they generate responses not supported by or contradicting the knowledge source. To mitigate the issue and increase faithfulness of information-seeking dialogue systems, we introduce BeInfo, a simple yet effective method that applies behavioural tuning to aid information-seeking dialogue. Relying on three standard datasets, we show that models tuned with BeInfo} become considerably more faithful to the knowledge source both for datasets and domains seen during BeInfo-tuning, as well as on unseen domains, when applied in a zero-shot manner. In addition, we show that the models with 3B parameters (e.g., Flan-T5) tuned with BeInfo demonstrate strong performance on data from real `production' conversations and outperform GPT4 when tuned on a limited amount of such realistic in-domain dialogues.

------------

`[2312.01714] Retrieval-augmented Multi-modal Chain-of-Thoughts Reasoning for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01714>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 06:12:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Chenyang Lyu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 4 Dec 2023 08:07:21 UTC (1,339 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 06:12:44 UTC (3,841 KB)
    Bingshuai Liu, Chenyang Lyu, Zijun Min, Zhanyu Wang, Jinsong Su, Longyue Wang

The advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has brought substantial attention to the Chain of Thought (CoT) approach, primarily due to its ability to enhance the capability of LLMs on complex reasoning tasks. Moreover, the significance of CoT approaches extends to the application of LLMs for multi-modal tasks. However, the selection of optimal CoT demonstration examples in multi-modal reasoning remains less explored for LLMs due to the inherent complexity of multi-modal examples. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach that addresses this challenge by using retrieval mechanisms to dynamically and automatically select demonstration examples based on cross-modal and intra-modal similarities. Furthermore, we employ a Stratified Sampling method of categorising demonstration examples into groups based on their types and then retrieving examples from different groups respectively to promote the diversity of demonstration examples. Through a series of experiments on two popular benchmark datasets: ScienceQA and MathVista, we demonstrate that our approach significantly improves the performance of GPT-4 by 6% on ScienceQA and 12.9% on MathVista, and enhances the performance of GPT-4V on two datasets by 2.7%, substantially improving the performance of the most advanced LLMs and LMMs for complex multi-modal reasoning tasks.

------------

`[2312.02436] MUFFIN: Curating Multi-Faceted Instructions for Improving Instruction-Following <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02436>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 04:12:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Renze Lou [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 5 Dec 2023 02:32:08 UTC (2,298 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 04:12:02 UTC (2,374 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 03:11:44 UTC (2,374 KB)
    Renze Lou, Kai Zhang, Jian Xie, Yuxuan Sun, Janice Ahn, Hanzi Xu, Yu Su, Wenpeng Yin

In the realm of large language models (LLMs), enhancing instruction-following capability often involves curating expansive training data. This is achieved through two primary schemes: i) Scaling-Inputs: Amplifying (input, output) pairs per task instruction, aiming for better instruction adherence. ii) Scaling Input-Free Tasks: Enlarging tasks, each composed of an (instruction, output) pair (without requiring a separate input anymore). However, LLMs under Scaling-Inputs tend to be overly sensitive to inputs, leading to misinterpretation or non-compliance with instructions. Conversely, Scaling Input-Free Tasks demands a substantial number of tasks but is less effective in instruction following when dealing with instances in Scaling-Inputs. This work introduces MUFFIN, a new scheme of instruction-following dataset curation. Specifically, we automatically Scale Tasks per Input by diversifying these tasks with various input facets. Experimental results across four zero-shot benchmarks, spanning both Scaling-Inputs and Scaling Input-Free Tasks schemes, reveal that LLMs, at various scales, trained on MUFFIN generally demonstrate superior instruction-following capabilities compared to those trained on the two aforementioned schemes.

------------

`[2312.11361] NoMIRACL: Knowing When You Don't Know for Robust Multilingual Retrieval-Augmented Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11361>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:32:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Nandan Thakur [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 18 Dec 2023 17:18:04 UTC (7,470 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:32:10 UTC (477 KB)
    Nandan Thakur, Luiz Bonifacio, Xinyu Zhang, Odunayo Ogundepo, Ehsan Kamalloo, David Alfonso-Hermelo, Xiaoguang Li, Qun Liu, Boxing Chen, Mehdi Rezagholizadeh, Jimmy Lin

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) grounds large language model (LLM) output by leveraging external knowledge sources to reduce factual hallucinations. However, prior works lack a comprehensive evaluation of different language families, making it challenging to evaluate LLM robustness against errors in external retrieved knowledge. To overcome this, we establish NoMIRACL, a human-annotated dataset for evaluating LLM robustness in RAG across 18 typologically diverse languages. NoMIRACL includes both a non-relevant and a relevant subset. Queries in the non-relevant subset contain passages judged as non-relevant, whereas queries in the relevant subset include at least a single judged relevant passage. We measure LLM robustness using two metrics: (i) hallucination rate, measuring model tendency to hallucinate an answer, when the answer is not present in passages in the non-relevant subset, and (ii) error rate, measuring model inaccuracy to recognize relevant passages in the relevant subset. In our work, we measure robustness for a wide variety of multilingual-focused LLMs and observe that most of the models struggle to balance the two capacities. Models such as LLAMA-2, Orca-2, and FLAN-T5 observe more than an 88% hallucination rate on the non-relevant subset, whereas, Mistral overall hallucinates less, but can achieve up to a 74.9% error rate on the relevant subset. Overall, GPT-4 is observed to provide the best tradeoff on both subsets, highlighting future work necessary to improve LLM robustness.

------------

`[2312.13103] Exploring Multimodal Large Language Models for Radiology Report Error-checking <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.13103>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 21:06:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinge Wu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Dec 2023 15:20:33 UTC (810 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 21:06:33 UTC (711 KB)
    Jinge Wu, Yunsoo Kim, Eva C. Keller, Jamie Chow, Adam P. Levine, Nikolas Pontikos, Zina Ibrahim, Paul Taylor, Michelle C. Williams, Honghan Wu

This paper proposes one of the first clinical applications of multimodal large language models (LLMs) as an assistant for radiologists to check errors in their reports. We created an evaluation dataset from real-world radiology datasets (including X-rays and CT scans). A subset of original reports was modified to contain synthetic errors by introducing three types of mistakes: "insert", "remove", and "substitute". The evaluation contained two difficulty levels: SIMPLE for binary error-checking and COMPLEX for identifying error types. At the SIMPLE level, our fine-tuned model significantly enhanced performance by 47.4% and 25.4% on MIMIC-CXR and IU X-ray data, respectively. This performance boost is also observed in unseen modality, CT scans, as the model performed 19.46% better than the baseline model. The model also surpassed the domain expert's accuracy in the MIMIC-CXR dataset by 1.67%. Notably, among the subsets (N=21) of the test set where a clinician did not achieve the correct conclusion, the LLaVA ensemble mode correctly identified 71.4% of these cases. However, all models performed poorly in identifying mistake types, underscoring the difficulty of the COMPLEX level. This study marks a promising step toward utilizing multimodal LLMs to enhance diagnostic accuracy in radiology. The ensemble model demonstrated comparable performance to clinicians, even capturing errors overlooked by humans.

------------

`[2401.06509] AntEval: Quantitatively Evaluating Informativeness and Expressiveness of Agent Social Interactions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06509>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 13:16:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuanzhi Liang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 11:18:00 UTC (10,199 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 13:16:53 UTC (10,742 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 12:07:04 UTC (10,742 KB)
    Yuanzhi Liang, Linchao Zhu, Yi Yang

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their ability to replicate human behaviors across a wide range of scenarios. However, their capability in handling complex, multi-character social interactions has yet to be fully explored, primarily due to the absence of robust, quantitative evaluation methods. This gap has slowed the development of agents proficient in more nuanced interactions beyond simple exchanges, for example, small talk. To address this challenge, we introduce the Multi-Agent Interaction Evaluation Framework (AntEval), encompassing a novel interaction framework and evaluation methods. The interaction framework aims to foster an complex interaction environment that bolsters information exchange and intention expression within social interactions. Furthermore, we introduce evaluation methods, including two metrics: Information Exchanging Precision (IEP) and Interaction Expressiveness Gap (IEG), designed for the quantitative and objective assessment of agents' interaction competencies. Our findings highlight the utility of these evaluative methods and show significant potential for improving LLMs' ability to construct agents that interact in a more natural manner with human-like intricacy.

------------

`[2401.06915] DocFinQA: A Long-Context Financial Reasoning Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06915>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 29 Feb 2024 19:55:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Viet Lai [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 22:19:22 UTC (2,190 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 19:55:14 UTC (7,703 KB)
    Varshini Reddy, Rik Koncel-Kedziorski, Viet Dac Lai, Michael Krumdick, Charles Lovering, Chris Tanner

For large language models (LLMs) to be effective in the financial domain -- where each decision can have a significant impact -- it is necessary to investigate realistic tasks and data. Financial professionals often interact with documents that are hundreds of pages long, but most financial research datasets only deal with short excerpts from these documents. To address this, we introduce a long-document financial QA task. We augment 7,437 questions from the existing FinQA dataset with the full-document context, extending the average context length from under 700 words in FinQA to 123k words in DocFinQA. We conduct extensive experiments over retrieval-based QA pipelines and long-context language models. DocFinQA proves a significant challenge for even state-of-the-art systems. We also provide a case-study on the longest documents in DocFinQA and find that models particularly struggle on these documents. Addressing these challenges may have a wide reaching impact across applications where specificity and long-range contexts are critical, like gene sequences and legal document contract analysis.

------------

`[2402.02564] A Truly Joint Neural Architecture for Segmentation and Parsing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02564>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 16:33:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Danit Yshaayahu Levi [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 4 Feb 2024 16:56:08 UTC (440 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 16:33:32 UTC (440 KB)
    Danit Yshaayahu Levi and Reut Tsarfaty

Contemporary multilingual dependency parsers can parse a diverse set of languages, but for Morphologically Rich Languages (MRLs), performance is attested to be lower than other languages. The key challenge is that, due to high morphological complexity and ambiguity of the space-delimited input tokens, the linguistic units that act as nodes in the tree are not known in advance. Pre-neural dependency parsers for MRLs subscribed to the joint morpho-syntactic hypothesis, stating that morphological segmentation and syntactic parsing should be solved jointly, rather than as a pipeline where segmentation precedes parsing. However, neural state-of-the-art parsers to date use a strict pipeline. In this paper we introduce a joint neural architecture where a lattice-based representation preserving all morphological ambiguity of the input is provided to an arc-factored model, which then solves the morphological segmentation and syntactic parsing tasks at once. Our experiments on Hebrew, a rich and highly ambiguous MRL, demonstrate state-of-the-art performance on parsing, tagging and segmentation of the Hebrew section of UD, using a single model. This proposed architecture is LLM-based and language agnostic, providing a solid foundation for MRLs to obtain further performance improvements and bridge the gap with other languages.

------------

`[2402.03223] English Prompts are Better for NLI-based Zero-Shot Emotion Classification than Target-Language Prompts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03223>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:31:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Roman Klinger [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 17:36:19 UTC (220 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:31:48 UTC (220 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 6 Mar 2024 11:06:42 UTC (220 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 7 Mar 2024 17:18:18 UTC (207 KB)
    Patrick Barrei{\ss} and Roman Klinger and Jeremy Barnes

Emotion classification in text is a challenging task due to the processes involved when interpreting a textual description of a potential emotion stimulus. In addition, the set of emotion categories is highly domain-specific. For instance, literature analysis might require the use of aesthetic emotions (e.g., finding something beautiful), and social media analysis could benefit from fine-grained sets (e.g., separating anger from annoyance) than only those that represent basic categories as they have been proposed by Paul Ekman (anger, disgust, fear, joy, surprise, sadness). This renders the task an interesting field for zero-shot classifications, in which the label set is not known at model development time. Unfortunately, most resources for emotion analysis are English, and therefore, most studies on emotion analysis have been performed in English, including those that involve prompting language models for text labels. This leaves us with a research gap that we address in this paper: In which language should we prompt for emotion labels on non-English texts? This is particularly of interest when we have access to a multilingual large language model, because we could request labels with English prompts even for non-English data. Our experiments with natural language inference-based language models show that it is consistently better to use English prompts even if the data is in a different language.

------------

`[2402.05044] SALAD-Bench: A Hierarchical and Comprehensive Safety Benchmark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05044>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:20:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Lijun Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 17:33:54 UTC (12,088 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 02:50:22 UTC (12,088 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 07:20:31 UTC (12,089 KB)
    Lijun Li, Bowen Dong, Ruohui Wang, Xuhao Hu, Wangmeng Zuo, Dahua Lin, Yu Qiao, Jing Shao

In the rapidly evolving landscape of Large Language Models (LLMs), ensuring robust safety measures is paramount. To meet this crucial need, we propose \emph{SALAD-Bench}, a safety benchmark specifically designed for evaluating LLMs, attack, and defense methods. Distinguished by its breadth, SALAD-Bench transcends conventional benchmarks through its large scale, rich diversity, intricate taxonomy spanning three levels, and versatile functionalities.SALAD-Bench is crafted with a meticulous array of questions, from standard queries to complex ones enriched with attack, defense modifications and multiple-choice. To effectively manage the inherent complexity, we introduce an innovative evaluators: the LLM-based MD-Judge for QA pairs with a particular focus on attack-enhanced queries, ensuring a seamless, and reliable evaluation. Above components extend SALAD-Bench from standard LLM safety evaluation to both LLM attack and defense methods evaluation, ensuring the joint-purpose utility. Our extensive experiments shed light on the resilience of LLMs against emerging threats and the efficacy of contemporary defense tactics. Data and evaluator are released under this https URL.

------------

`[2402.09282] Distilling Large Language Models into Tiny Models for Named Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09282>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 15:01:55 GMT
    Submission history From: Yining Huang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:10:45 UTC (3,003 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 15:01:55 UTC (1,048 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 16:45:40 UTC (454 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 24 Mar 2024 07:06:19 UTC (454 KB)
    Yining Huang

Emerging Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 have revolutionized Natural Language Processing (NLP), showing potential in traditional tasks such as Named Entity Recognition (NER). Our study explores a three-phase training strategy that harnesses GPT-4's capabilities to enhance the BERT model's performance on NER. Initially, GPT-4 annotates a subset of the CONLL2003 and additional BBC dataset without fine-tuning. We then train BERT using a mix of original and LLM-annotated data, analyzing the efficacy of LLM annotations against traditional methods. The second phase involves comparative experiments with different training regimens, assessing the synergy between distilled and original data. We observe that sequential strategies, particularly a simple mix of training first with distilled data followed by original data, significantly boost performance. In the third phase, we investigate various data blending techniques, including sigmoid and power decay functions, to optimize the training process further. Our results indicate that a strategic mix of distilled and original data markedly elevates the NER capabilities of BERT. Our approach presents a scalable methodology that reduces manual annotation costs and increases efficiency, making it especially pertinent in resource-limited and closed-network environments. The study concludes that while the 'Simple Mix' strategy yields the best results, understanding its underlying mechanisms requires further research. Future work will also focus on refining prompt designs and enhancing annotation selection processes, aiming to extend our methodology to diverse NLP tasks.

------------

`[2402.11094] Word Embeddings Revisited: Do LLMs Offer Something New? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11094>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:01:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Shubhra Kanti Karmaker Santu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 21:47:30 UTC (8,720 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:01:04 UTC (8,846 KB)
    Matthew Freestone and Shubhra Kanti Karmaker Santu

Learning meaningful word embeddings is key to training a robust language model. The recent rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) has provided us with many new word/sentence/document embedding models. Although LLMs have shown remarkable advancement in various NLP tasks, it is still unclear whether the performance improvement is merely because of scale or whether underlying embeddings they produce significantly differ from classical encoding models like Sentence-BERT (SBERT) or Universal Sentence Encoder (USE). This paper systematically investigates this issue by comparing classical word embedding techniques against LLM-based word embeddings in terms of their latent vector semantics. Our results show that LLMs tend to cluster semantically related words more tightly than classical models. LLMs also yield higher average accuracy on the Bigger Analogy Test Set (BATS) over classical methods. Finally, some LLMs tend to produce word embeddings similar to SBERT, a relatively lighter classical model.

------------

`[2402.11924] MRKE: The Multi-hop Reasoning Evaluation of LLMs by Knowledge Edition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11924>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 02:23:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Jian Wu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 08:12:30 UTC (1,642 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 02:23:19 UTC (1,642 KB)
    Jian Wu, Linyi Yang, Manabu Okumura, Yue Zhang

Although Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown strong performance in Multi-hop Question Answering (MHQA) tasks, their real reasoning ability remains exploration. Current LLM QA evaluation benchmarks have shown limitations, including 1) data contamination, the evaluation data are potentially exposed to LLMs during the pretraining stage; and 2) ignoration of the reasoning chain evaluation. Thus we introduce an LLM MHQA evaluation benchmark, the first QA benchmark based on the new, unprecedented knowledge by editing the off-the-shelf HotpotQA dataset; Besides, we also annotate and evaluate the reasoning chain in the form of sub-questions and intermediate answers corresponding to the multi-hop questions. Specifically, based on the observation, 1) LLMs show a performance gap between the original HotpotQA and our edited data, deeming that current MHQA benchmarks have the potential risk of data contamination that hard to evaluate LLMs' performance objectively and scientifically; 2) LLMs only get a small percentage of the right reasoning chain, e.g. GPT-4 only gets 36.3\% right reasoning chain. We believe this new Multi-hop QA evaluation benchmark and novel evaluation methods will facilitate the development of trustworthy LLM evaluation on the MHQA task.

------------

`[2402.12151] Transformer-based Causal Language Models Perform Clustering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12151>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 20:06:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Xinbo Wu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 14:02:31 UTC (10,659 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 20:06:24 UTC (11,260 KB)
    Xinbo Wu, Lav R. Varshney

Even though large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capability in solving various natural language tasks, the capability of an LLM to follow human instructions is still a concern. Recent works have shown great improvements in the instruction-following capability via additional training for instruction-following tasks. However, the mechanisms responsible for effective instruction-following capabilities remain inadequately understood. Here, we introduce a simplified instruction-following task and use synthetic datasets to analyze a Transformer-based causal language model. Our findings suggest that the model learns task-specific information by clustering data within its hidden space, with this clustering process evolving dynamically during learning. We also demonstrate how this phenomenon assists the model in handling unseen instances, and validate our results in a more realistic setting. Furthermore, we present inspired applications regarding pre-training and alignment.

------------

`[2402.15302] How (un)ethical are instruction-centric responses of LLMs? Unveiling the vulnerabilities of safety guardrails to harmful queries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15302>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:50:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Somnath Banerjee [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 13:03:12 UTC (790 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 04:54:44 UTC (702 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:50:19 UTC (616 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 17:57:58 UTC (617 KB)
    Somnath Banerjee, Sayan Layek, Rima Hazra, Animesh Mukherjee

In this study, we tackle a growing concern around the safety and ethical use of large language models (LLMs). Despite their potential, these models can be tricked into producing harmful or unethical content through various sophisticated methods, including 'jailbreaking' techniques and targeted manipulation. Our work zeroes in on a specific issue: to what extent LLMs can be led astray by asking them to generate responses that are instruction-centric such as a pseudocode, a program or a software snippet as opposed to vanilla text. To investigate this question, we introduce TechHazardQA, a dataset containing complex queries which should be answered in both text and instruction-centric formats (e.g., pseudocodes), aimed at identifying triggers for unethical responses. We query a series of LLMs -- Llama-2-13b, Llama-2-7b, Mistral-V2 and Mistral 8X7B -- and ask them to generate both text and instruction-centric responses. For evaluation we report the harmfulness score metric as well as judgements from GPT-4 and humans. Overall, we observe that asking LLMs to produce instruction-centric responses enhances the unethical response generation by ~2-38% across the models. As an additional objective, we investigate the impact of model editing using the ROME technique, which further increases the propensity for generating undesirable content. In particular, asking edited LLMs to generate instruction-centric responses further increases the unethical response generation by ~3-16% across the different models.

------------

`[2402.16061] How Large Language Models Encode Context Knowledge? A Layer-Wise Probing Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16061>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 13:37:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Tianjie Ju [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 11:15:42 UTC (1,340 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 13:37:48 UTC (1,348 KB)
    Tianjie Ju, Weiwei Sun, Wei Du, Xinwei Yuan, Zhaochun Ren, Gongshen Liu

Previous work has showcased the intriguing capability of large language models (LLMs) in retrieving facts and processing context knowledge. However, only limited research exists on the layer-wise capability of LLMs to encode knowledge, which challenges our understanding of their internal mechanisms. In this paper, we devote the first attempt to investigate the layer-wise capability of LLMs through probing tasks. We leverage the powerful generative capability of ChatGPT to construct probing datasets, providing diverse and coherent evidence corresponding to various facts. We employ $\mathcal V$-usable information as the validation metric to better reflect the capability in encoding context knowledge across different layers. Our experiments on conflicting and newly acquired knowledge show that LLMs: (1) prefer to encode more context knowledge in the upper layers; (2) primarily encode context knowledge within knowledge-related entity tokens at lower layers while progressively expanding more knowledge within other tokens at upper layers; and (3) gradually forget the earlier context knowledge retained within the intermediate layers when provided with irrelevant evidence. Code is publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.16063] Citation-Enhanced Generation for LLM-based Chatbots <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16063>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 01:53:35 GMT
    Submission history From: WeiTao Li [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 11:24:41 UTC (731 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:07:23 UTC (731 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 01:53:35 UTC (731 KB)
    Weitao Li, Junkai Li, Weizhi Ma, Yang Liu

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit powerful general intelligence across diverse scenarios, including their integration into chatbots. However, a vital challenge of LLM-based chatbots is that they may produce hallucinated content in responses, which significantly limits their applicability. Various efforts have been made to alleviate hallucination, such as retrieval augmented generation and reinforcement learning with human feedback, but most of them require additional training and data annotation. In this paper, we propose a novel post-hoc Citation-Enhanced Generation (CEG) approach combined with retrieval argumentation. Unlike previous studies that focus on preventing hallucinations during generation, our method addresses this issue in a post-hoc way. It incorporates a retrieval module to search for supporting documents relevant to the generated content, and employs a natural language inference-based citation generation module. Once the statements in the generated content lack of reference, our model can regenerate responses until all statements are supported by citations. Note that our method is a training-free plug-and-play plugin that is capable of various LLMs. Experiments on various hallucination-related datasets show our framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods in both hallucination detection and response regeneration on three benchmarks. Our codes and dataset will be publicly available.

------------

`[2402.16107] FuseChat: Knowledge Fusion of Chat Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16107>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 07:21:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Fanqi Wan [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 15:11:58 UTC (243 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 04:48:36 UTC (243 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 07:21:36 UTC (243 KB)
    Fanqi Wan, Ziyi Yang, Longguang Zhong, Xiaojun Quan, Xinting Huang, Wei Bi

While training large language models (LLMs) from scratch can indeed lead to models with distinct capabilities and strengths, this approach incurs substantial costs and may lead to potential redundancy in competencies. An alternative strategy is to combine existing LLMs into a more robust LLM, thereby diminishing the necessity for expensive pre-training. However, due to the diverse architectures of LLMs, direct parameter blending proves to be unfeasible. Recently, \textsc{FuseLLM} introduced the concept of knowledge fusion to transfer the collective knowledge of multiple structurally varied LLMs into a target LLM through lightweight continual training. In this report, we extend the scalability and flexibility of the \textsc{FuseLLM} framework to realize the fusion of chat LLMs, resulting in \textsc{FuseChat}. \textsc{FuseChat} comprises two main stages. Firstly, we undertake knowledge fusion for structurally and scale-varied source LLMs to derive multiple target LLMs of identical structure and size via lightweight fine-tuning. Then, these target LLMs are merged within the parameter space, wherein we propose a novel method for determining the merging weights based on the variation ratio of parameter matrices before and after fine-tuning. We validate our approach using three prominent chat LLMs with diverse architectures and scales, namely \texttt{NH2-Mixtral-8x7B}, \texttt{NH2-Solar-10.7B}, and \texttt{OpenChat-3.5-7B}. Experimental results spanning various chat domains demonstrate the superiority of \texttt{\textsc{FuseChat}-7B} across a broad spectrum of chat LLMs at 7B and 34B scales, even surpassing \texttt{GPT-3.5 (March)} and approaching \texttt{Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct}. Our code, model weights, and data are openly accessible at \url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2402.16379] Improving LLM-based Machine Translation with Systematic Self-Correction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16379>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 03:14:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhaopeng Feng [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 07:58:12 UTC (5,006 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 03:14:11 UTC (5,006 KB)
    Zhaopeng Feng, Yan Zhang, Hao Li, Wenqiang Liu, Jun Lang, Yang Feng, Jian Wu, Zuozhu Liu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved impressive results in Machine Translation (MT). However, careful evaluations by human reveal that the translations produced by LLMs still contain multiple errors. Importantly, feeding back such error information into the LLMs can lead to self-correction and result in improved translation performance. Motivated by these insights, we introduce a systematic LLM-based self-correcting translation framework, named TER, which stands for Translate, Estimate, and Refine, marking a significant step forward in this direction. Our findings demonstrate that 1) our self-correction framework successfully assists LLMs in improving their translation quality across a wide range of languages, whether it's from high-resource languages to low-resource ones or whether it's English-centric or centered around other languages; 2) TER exhibits superior systematicity and interpretability compared to previous methods; 3) different estimation strategies yield varied impacts on AI feedback, directly affecting the effectiveness of the final corrections. We further compare different LLMs and conduct various experiments involving self-correction and cross-model correction to investigate the potential relationship between the translation and evaluation capabilities of LLMs. Our code and data are available at this https URL

------------

`[2402.17256] Beyond the Known: Investigating LLMs Performance on Out-of-Domain Intent Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17256>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:04:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Pei Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:02:10 UTC (1,228 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:04:32 UTC (1,228 KB)
    Pei Wang, Keqing He, Yejie Wang, Xiaoshuai Song, Yutao Mou, Jingang Wang, Yunsen Xian, Xunliang Cai, Weiran Xu

Out-of-domain (OOD) intent detection aims to examine whether the user's query falls outside the predefined domain of the system, which is crucial for the proper functioning of task-oriented dialogue (TOD) systems. Previous methods address it by fine-tuning discriminative models. Recently, some studies have been exploring the application of large language models (LLMs) represented by ChatGPT to various downstream tasks, but it is still unclear for their ability on OOD detection task.This paper conducts a comprehensive evaluation of LLMs under various experimental settings, and then outline the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs. We find that LLMs exhibit strong zero-shot and few-shot capabilities, but is still at a disadvantage compared to models fine-tuned with full resource. More deeply, through a series of additional analysis experiments, we discuss and summarize the challenges faced by LLMs and provide guidance for future work including injecting domain knowledge, strengthening knowledge transfer from IND(In-domain) to OOD, and understanding long instructions.

------------

`[2402.17411] Consistency Matters: Explore LLMs Consistency From a Black-Box Perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17411>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:08:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Fufangchen Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:02:12 UTC (974 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 14:08:06 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    Fufangchen Zhao, Guoqiang Jin, Jiaheng Huang, Rui Zhao and Fei Tan

Nowadays both commercial and open-source academic LLM have become the mainstream models of NLP. However, there is still a lack of research on LLM consistency, meaning that throughout the various stages of LLM research and deployment, its internal parameters and capabilities should remain unchanged. This issue exists in both the industrial and academic sectors. The solution to this problem is often time-consuming and labor-intensive, and there is also an additional cost of secondary deployment, resulting in economic and time losses. To fill this gap, we build an LLM consistency task dataset and design several baselines. Additionally, we choose models of diverse scales for the main experiments. Specifically, in the LightGBM experiment, we used traditional NLG metrics (i.e., ROUGE, BLEU, METEOR) as the features needed for model training. The final result exceeds the manual evaluation and GPT3.5 as well as other models in the main experiment, achieving the best performance. In the end, we use the best performing LightGBM model as the base model to build the evaluation tool, which can effectively assist in the deployment of business models. Our code and tool demo are available at this https URL

------------

`[2402.17887] JMLR: Joint Medical LLM and Retrieval Training for Enhancing Reasoning and Professional Question Answering Capability <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17887>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 09:03:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Junda Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 21:01:41 UTC (1,792 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 09:03:18 UTC (1,792 KB)
    Junda Wang, Zhichao Yang, Zonghai Yao, Hong Yu

With the explosive growth of medical data and the rapid development of artificial intelligence technology, precision medicine has emerged as a key to enhancing the quality and efficiency of healthcare services. In this context, Large Language Models (LLMs) play an increasingly vital role in medical knowledge acquisition and question-answering systems. To further improve the performance of these systems in the medical domain, we introduce an innovative method that jointly trains an Information Retrieval (IR) system and an LLM during the fine-tuning phase. This approach, which we call Joint Medical LLM and Retrieval Training (JMLR), is designed to overcome the challenges faced by traditional models in handling medical question-answering tasks. By employing a synchronized training mechanism, JMLR reduces the demand for computational resources and enhances the model's ability to leverage medical knowledge for reasoning and answering questions. Our experimental results demonstrate that JMLR-13B (81.2% on Amboos, 61.3% on MedQA) outperforms models using conventional pre-training and fine-tuning Meditron-70B (76.4% on AMBOSS, 60.3% on MedQA). For models of the same 7B scale, JMLR-7B(68.7% on Amboos, 51.7% on MedQA) significantly outperforms other public models (Meditron-7B: 50.1%, 47.9%), proving its superiority in terms of cost (our training time: 37 hours, traditional method: 144 hours), efficiency, and effectiveness in medical question-answering tasks. Through this work, we provide a new and efficient knowledge enhancement tool for healthcare, demonstrating the great potential of integrating IR and LLM training in precision medical information retrieval and question-answering systems.

------------

`[2402.17897] A Language Model based Framework for New Concept Placement in Ontologies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17897>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 14:06:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Hang Dong [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 21:27:35 UTC (300 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 14:06:42 UTC (300 KB)
    Hang Dong, Jiaoyan Chen, Yuan He, Yongsheng Gao, Ian Horrocks

We investigate the task of inserting new concepts extracted from texts into an ontology using language models. We explore an approach with three steps: edge search which is to find a set of candidate locations to insert (i.e., subsumptions between concepts), edge formation and enrichment which leverages the ontological structure to produce and enhance the edge candidates, and edge selection which eventually locates the edge to be placed into. In all steps, we propose to leverage neural methods, where we apply embedding-based methods and contrastive learning with Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) such as BERT for edge search, and adapt a BERT fine-tuning-based multi-label Edge-Cross-encoder, and Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT series, FLAN-T5, and Llama 2, for edge selection. We evaluate the methods on recent datasets created using the SNOMED CT ontology and the MedMentions entity linking benchmark. The best settings in our framework use fine-tuned PLM for search and a multi-label Cross-encoder for selection. Zero-shot prompting of LLMs is still not adequate for the task, and we propose explainable instruction tuning of LLMs for improved performance. Our study shows the advantages of PLMs and highlights the encouraging performance of LLMs that motivates future studies.

------------

`[2402.18243] Learning or Self-aligning? Rethinking Instruction Fine-tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18243>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:28:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Mengjie Ren [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 11:16:00 UTC (483 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:28:14 UTC (483 KB)
    Mengjie Ren, Boxi Cao, Hongyu Lin, Cao Liu, Xianpei Han, Ke Zeng, Guanglu Wan, Xunliang Cai, Le Sun

Instruction Fine-tuning~(IFT) is a critical phase in building large language models~(LLMs). Previous works mainly focus on the IFT's role in the transfer of behavioral norms and the learning of additional world knowledge. However, the understanding of the underlying mechanisms of IFT remains significantly limited. In this paper, we design a knowledge intervention framework to decouple the potential underlying factors of IFT, thereby enabling individual analysis of different factors. Surprisingly, our experiments reveal that attempting to learn additional world knowledge through IFT often struggles to yield positive impacts and can even lead to markedly negative effects. Further, we discover that maintaining internal knowledge consistency before and after IFT is a critical factor for achieving successful IFT. Our findings reveal the underlying mechanisms of IFT and provide robust support for some very recent and potential future works.

------------

`[2402.19116] How to Understand "Support"? An Implicit-enhanced Causal Inference Approach for Weakly-supervised Phrase Grounding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19116>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 08:42:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Jianing Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 12:49:48 UTC (1,115 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 08:42:56 UTC (1,116 KB)
    Jiamin Luo, Jianing Zhao, Jingjing Wang, Guodong Zhou

Weakly-supervised Phrase Grounding (WPG) is an emerging task of inferring the fine-grained phrase-region matching, while merely leveraging the coarse-grained sentence-image pairs for training. However, existing studies on WPG largely ignore the implicit phrase-region matching relations, which are crucial for evaluating the capability of models in understanding the deep multimodal semantics. To this end, this paper proposes an Implicit-Enhanced Causal Inference (IECI) approach to address the challenges of modeling the implicit relations and highlighting them beyond the explicit. Specifically, this approach leverages both the intervention and counterfactual techniques to tackle the above two challenges respectively. Furthermore, a high-quality implicit-enhanced dataset is annotated to evaluate IECI and detailed evaluations show the great advantages of IECI over the state-of-the-art baselines. Particularly, we observe an interesting finding that IECI outperforms the advanced multimodal LLMs by a large margin on this implicit-enhanced dataset, which may facilitate more research to evaluate the multimodal LLMs in this direction.

------------

`[2402.19248] Let LLMs Take on the Latest Challenges! A Chinese Dynamic Question Answering Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19248>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 04:37:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Yinghui Li [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 15:22:13 UTC (8,140 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 04:37:37 UTC (8,119 KB)
    Zhikun Xu, Yinghui Li, Ruixue Ding, Xinyu Wang, Boli Chen, Yong Jiang, Hai-Tao Zheng, Wenlian Lu, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang

How to better evaluate the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) is the focal point and hot topic in current LLMs research. Previous work has noted that due to the extremely high cost of iterative updates of LLMs, they are often unable to answer the latest dynamic questions well. To promote the improvement of Chinese LLMs' ability to answer dynamic questions, in this paper, we introduce CDQA, a Chinese Dynamic QA benchmark containing question-answer pairs related to the latest news on the Chinese Internet. We obtain high-quality data through a pipeline that combines humans and models, and carefully classify the samples according to the frequency of answer changes to facilitate a more fine-grained observation of LLMs' capabilities. We have also evaluated and analyzed mainstream and advanced Chinese LLMs on CDQA. Extensive experiments and valuable insights suggest that our proposed CDQA is challenging and worthy of more further study. We believe that the benchmark we provide will become one of the key data resources for improving LLMs' Chinese question-answering ability in the future.

------------

`[2402.19406] On the Scaling Laws of Geographical Representation in Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19406>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 11:35:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Nathan Godey [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 18:04:11 UTC (10,140 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 11:35:02 UTC (10,140 KB)
    Nathan Godey, \'Eric de la Clergerie, Beno\^it Sagot

Language models have long been shown to embed geographical information in their hidden representations. This line of work has recently been revisited by extending this result to Large Language Models (LLMs). In this paper, we propose to fill the gap between well-established and recent literature by observing how geographical knowledge evolves when scaling language models. We show that geographical knowledge is observable even for tiny models, and that it scales consistently as we increase the model size. Notably, we observe that larger language models cannot mitigate the geographical bias that is inherent to the training data.

------------

`[2403.00510] ROME: Memorization Insights from Text, Probability and Hidden State in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00510>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:36:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Bo Li [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 13:15:30 UTC (778 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:36:01 UTC (773 KB)
    Bo Li and Qinghua Zhao and Lijie Wen

Probing the memorization of large language models holds significant importance. Previous works have established metrics for quantifying memorization, explored various influencing factors, such as data duplication, model size, and prompt length, and evaluated memorization by comparing model outputs with training corpora. However, the training corpora are of enormous scale and its pre-processing is time-consuming. To explore memorization without accessing training data, we propose a novel approach, named ROME, wherein memorization is explored by comparing disparities across memorized and non-memorized. Specifically, models firstly categorize the selected samples into memorized and non-memorized groups, and then comparing the demonstrations in the two groups from the insights of text, probability, and hidden state. Experimental findings show the disparities in factors including word length, part-of-speech, word frequency, mean and variance, just to name a few.

------------

`[2307.12306] Tackling the Curse of Dimensionality with Physics-Informed Neural Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12306>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 12:03:05 GMT
    Submission history From: Zheyuan Hu [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 23 Jul 2023 12:18:12 UTC (1,959 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 7 Aug 2023 08:36:45 UTC (2,547 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 9 Aug 2023 05:19:06 UTC (2,547 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 12 Nov 2023 15:10:58 UTC (3,246 KB)
    [v5] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 12:03:05 UTC (652 KB)
    Zheyuan Hu, Khemraj Shukla, George Em Karniadakis, Kenji Kawaguchi

The curse-of-dimensionality taxes computational resources heavily with exponentially increasing computational cost as the dimension increases. This poses great challenges in solving high-dimensional PDEs, as Richard E. Bellman first pointed out over 60 years ago. While there has been some recent success in solving numerically partial differential equations (PDEs) in high dimensions, such computations are prohibitively expensive, and true scaling of general nonlinear PDEs to high dimensions has never been achieved. We develop a new method of scaling up physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) to solve arbitrary high-dimensional PDEs. The new method, called Stochastic Dimension Gradient Descent (SDGD), decomposes a gradient of PDEs into pieces corresponding to different dimensions and randomly samples a subset of these dimensional pieces in each iteration of training PINNs. We prove theoretically the convergence and other desired properties of the proposed method. We demonstrate in various diverse tests that the proposed method can solve many notoriously hard high-dimensional PDEs, including the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) and the Schrdinger equations in tens of thousands of dimensions very fast on a single GPU using the PINNs mesh-free approach. Notably, we solve nonlinear PDEs with nontrivial, anisotropic, and inseparable solutions in 100,000 effective dimensions in 12 hours on a single GPU using SDGD with PINNs. Since SDGD is a general training methodology of PINNs, it can be applied to any current and future variants of PINNs to scale them up for arbitrary high-dimensional PDEs.

------------

`[2309.16739] Pushing Large Language Models to the 6G Edge: Vision, Challenges, and Opportunities <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16739>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:17:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Lin Zheng [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Sep 2023 06:22:59 UTC (6,481 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 14:48:36 UTC (6,482 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:17:16 UTC (5,104 KB)
    Zheng Lin, Guanqiao Qu, Qiyuan Chen, Xianhao Chen, Zhe Chen and Kaibin Huang

Large language models (LLMs), which have shown remarkable capabilities, are revolutionizing AI development and potentially shaping our future. However, given their multimodality, the status quo cloud-based deployment faces some critical challenges: 1) long response time; 2) high bandwidth costs; and 3) the violation of data privacy. 6G mobile edge computing (MEC) systems may resolve these pressing issues. In this article, we explore the potential of deploying LLMs at the 6G edge. We start by introducing killer applications powered by multimodal LLMs, including robotics and healthcare, to highlight the need for deploying LLMs in the vicinity of end users. Then, we identify the critical challenges for LLM deployment at the edge and envision the 6G MEC architecture for LLMs. Furthermore, we delve into two design aspects, i.e., edge training and edge inference for LLMs. In both aspects, considering the inherent resource limitations at the edge, we discuss various cutting-edge techniques, including split learning/inference, parameter-efficient fine-tuning, quantization, and parameter-sharing inference, to facilitate the efficient deployment of LLMs. This article serves as a position paper for thoroughly identifying the motivation, challenges, and pathway for empowering LLMs at the 6G edge.

------------

`[2310.02207] Language Models Represent Space and Time <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02207>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:25:29 GMT
    Submission history From: Wes Gurnee [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 17:06:52 UTC (6,602 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 14 Dec 2023 02:45:45 UTC (6,793 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 18:25:29 UTC (6,793 KB)
    Wes Gurnee, Max Tegmark

The capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have sparked debate over whether such systems just learn an enormous collection of superficial statistics or a set of more coherent and grounded representations that reflect the real world. We find evidence for the latter by analyzing the learned representations of three spatial datasets (world, US, NYC places) and three temporal datasets (historical figures, artworks, news headlines) in the Llama-2 family of models. We discover that LLMs learn linear representations of space and time across multiple scales. These representations are robust to prompting variations and unified across different entity types (e.g. cities and landmarks). In addition, we identify individual "space neurons" and "time neurons" that reliably encode spatial and temporal coordinates. While further investigation is needed, our results suggest modern LLMs learn rich spatiotemporal representations of the real world and possess basic ingredients of a world model.

------------

`[2310.10207] Bongard-OpenWorld: Few-Shot Reasoning for Free-form Visual Concepts in the Real World <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10207>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 13:20:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Rujie Wu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 09:19:18 UTC (33,182 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 13:20:10 UTC (35,980 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 02:37:36 UTC (35,980 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 10:57:49 UTC (35,980 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 18 Mar 2024 09:05:12 UTC (35,980 KB)
    Rujie Wu, Xiaojian Ma, Zhenliang Zhang, Wei Wang, Qing Li, Song-Chun Zhu, Yizhou Wang

We introduce Bongard-OpenWorld, a new benchmark for evaluating real-world few-shot reasoning for machine vision. It originates from the classical Bongard Problems (BPs): Given two sets of images (positive and negative), the model needs to identify the set that query images belong to by inducing the visual concepts, which is exclusively depicted by images from the positive set. Our benchmark inherits the few-shot concept induction of the original BPs while adding the two novel layers of challenge: 1) open-world free-form concepts, as the visual concepts in Bongard-OpenWorld are unique compositions of terms from an open vocabulary, ranging from object categories to abstract visual attributes and commonsense factual knowledge; 2) real-world images, as opposed to the synthetic diagrams used by many counterparts. In our exploration, Bongard-OpenWorld already imposes a significant challenge to current few-shot reasoning algorithms. We further investigate to which extent the recently introduced Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision-Language Models (VLMs) can solve our task, by directly probing VLMs, and combining VLMs and LLMs in an interactive reasoning scheme. We even conceived a neuro-symbolic reasoning approach that reconciles LLMs & VLMs with logical reasoning to emulate the human problem-solving process for Bongard Problems. However, none of these approaches manage to close the human-machine gap, as the best learner achieves 64% accuracy while human participants easily reach 91%. We hope Bongard-OpenWorld can help us better understand the limitations of current visual intelligence and facilitate future research on visual agents with stronger few-shot visual reasoning capabilities.

------------

`[2401.14112] FP6-LLM: Efficiently Serving Large Language Models Through FP6-Centric Algorithm-System Co-Design <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14112>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 02:30:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Haojun Xia [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 25 Jan 2024 11:46:38 UTC (2,147 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 02:30:21 UTC (2,147 KB)
    Haojun Xia, Zhen Zheng, Xiaoxia Wu, Shiyang Chen, Zhewei Yao, Stephen Youn, Arash Bakhtiari, Michael Wyatt, Donglin Zhuang, Zhongzhu Zhou, Olatunji Ruwase, Yuxiong He, Shuaiwen Leon Song

Six-bit quantization (FP6) can effectively reduce the size of large language models (LLMs) and preserve the model quality consistently across varied applications. However, existing systems do not provide Tensor Core support for FP6 quantization and struggle to achieve practical performance improvements during LLM inference. It is challenging to support FP6 quantization on GPUs due to (1) unfriendly memory access of model weights with irregular bit-width and (2) high runtime overhead of weight de-quantization. To address these problems, we propose TC-FPx, the first full-stack GPU kernel design scheme with unified Tensor Core support of float-point weights for various quantization bit-width. We integrate TC-FPx kernel into an existing inference system, providing new end-to-end support (called FP6-LLM) for quantized LLM inference, where better trade-offs between inference cost and model quality are achieved. Experiments show that FP6-LLM enables the inference of LLaMA-70b using only a single GPU, achieving 1.69x-2.65x higher normalized inference throughput than the FP16 baseline. The source code is publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2401.15030] On the generalization capacity of neural networks during generic multimodal reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15030>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:23:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Takuya Ito [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 26 Jan 2024 17:42:59 UTC (16,032 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 15:23:16 UTC (7,535 KB)
    Takuya Ito, Soham Dan, Mattia Rigotti, James Kozloski, Murray Campbell

The advent of the Transformer has led to the development of large language models (LLM), which appear to demonstrate human-like capabilities. To assess the generality of this class of models and a variety of other base neural network architectures to multimodal domains, we evaluated and compared their capacity for multimodal generalization. We introduce a multimodal question-answer benchmark to evaluate three specific types of out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization performance: distractor generalization (generalization in the presence of distractors), systematic compositional generalization (generalization to new task permutations), and productive compositional generalization (generalization to more complex tasks structures). We found that across model architectures (e.g., RNNs, Transformers, Perceivers, etc.), models with multiple attention layers, or models that leveraged cross-attention mechanisms between input domains, fared better. Our positive results demonstrate that for multimodal distractor and systematic generalization, either cross-modal attention or models with deeper attention layers are key architectural features required to integrate multimodal inputs. On the other hand, neither of these architectural features led to productive generalization, suggesting fundamental limitations of existing architectures for specific types of multimodal generalization. These results demonstrate the strengths and limitations of specific architectural components underlying modern neural models for multimodal reasoning. Finally, we provide Generic COG (gCOG), a configurable benchmark with several multimodal generalization splits, for future studies to explore.

------------

`[2401.18018] On Prompt-Driven Safeguarding for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.18018>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:31:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Chujie Zheng [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 31 Jan 2024 17:28:24 UTC (3,000 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 06:31:21 UTC (3,015 KB)
    Chujie Zheng, Fan Yin, Hao Zhou, Fandong Meng, Jie Zhou, Kai-Wei Chang, Minlie Huang, Nanyun Peng

Prepending model inputs with safety prompts is a common practice for safeguarding large language models (LLMs) from complying with queries that contain harmful intents. However, the working mechanisms of safety prompts have not been revealed yet, which hinders the potential for automatically optimizing them to improve LLM safety. To this end, we investigate the impact of safety prompts from the perspective of model representations. We find that in models' representation space, harmful and harmless queries can be largely distinguished, but this is not noticeably enhanced by safety prompts. Instead, the queries' representations are moved by safety prompts in similar directions where models become more prone to refusal (i.e., refusing to provide assistance) even when the queries are harmless. Inspired by these findings, we propose a method called DRO (Directed Representation Optimization) for automatic safety prompt optimization. It treats safety prompts as continuous, trainable embeddings and learns to move the representations of harmful/harmless queries along/opposite the direction in which the model's refusal probability increases. Experiments with eight LLMs on out-of-domain benchmarks demonstrate that DRO remarkably improves the safeguarding performance of human-crafted safety prompts and outperforms strong baselines, without compromising the general model capability.

------------

`[2402.02446] LQER: Low-Rank Quantization Error Reconstruction for LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02446>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:18:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Cheng Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 4 Feb 2024 10:59:52 UTC (403 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:18:47 UTC (396 KB)
    Cheng Zhang, Jianyi Cheng, George A. Constantinides, and Yiren Zhao

Post-training quantization of Large Language Models (LLMs) is challenging. In this work, we introduce Low-rank Quantization Error Reduction (LQER), which combines quantization and low-rank approximation to recover the model capability. LQER leverages an activation-induced scale matrix to drive the singular value distribution of quantization error towards a desirable distribution, which enables nearly-lossless W4A8 quantization on various LLMs and downstream tasks without the need for knowledge distillation, grid search, or gradient-base iterative optimization. Unlike existing methods, the computation pattern of LQER eliminates the need for specialized Scatter and Gather processes to collect high-precision weights from irregular memory locations. Our W4A8 LLMs achieve near-lossless performance on six popular downstream tasks, while using 1.36$\times$ fewer hardware resources than the leading state-of-the-art method. We will open-source our framework once the paper is accepted.

------------

`[2402.11253] Aligning Large Language Models by On-Policy Self-Judgment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11253>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 21:37:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Sangkyu Lee [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 11:25:26 UTC (371 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 21:37:16 UTC (370 KB)
    Sangkyu Lee, Sungdong Kim, Ashkan Yousefpour, Minjoon Seo, Kang Min Yoo, Youngjae Yu

Existing approaches for aligning large language models with human preferences face a trade-off that requires a separate reward model (RM) for on-policy learning. In this paper, we present a novel alignment framework, \method{} that (1) does on-policy learning and 2) is parameter efficient, as it does not require an additional RM for evaluating the samples for on-policy learning. To this end, we propose Judge-augmented Supervised Fine-Tuning (JSFT) to train a single model to act as both a policy and a judge. Specifically, we view the pairwise judgment task, choosing the better response from a response pair, as a special case of the instruction-following task. The resulting model can judge preferences of on-the-fly responses from current policy initialized from itself. Experimental results show the efficacy of \method{}, outperforming baselines in preference benchmarks. We also show that the rejecting sampling by itself can improve performance further without an additional evaluator.

------------

`[2306.05499] Prompt Injection attack against LLM-integrated Applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.05499>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 09:12:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Yi Liu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Jun 2023 18:43:11 UTC (729 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 09:12:23 UTC (729 KB)
    Yi Liu, Gelei Deng, Yuekang Li, Kailong Wang, Zihao Wang, Xiaofeng Wang, Tianwei Zhang, Yepang Liu, Haoyu Wang, Yan Zheng and Yang Liu

Large Language Models (LLMs), renowned for their superior proficiency in language comprehension and generation, stimulate a vibrant ecosystem of applications around them. However, their extensive assimilation into various services introduces significant security risks. This study deconstructs the complexities and implications of prompt injection attacks on actual LLM-integrated applications. Initially, we conduct an exploratory analysis on ten commercial applications, highlighting the constraints of current attack strategies in practice. Prompted by these limitations, we subsequently formulate HouYi, a novel black-box prompt injection attack technique, which draws inspiration from traditional web injection attacks. HouYi is compartmentalized into three crucial elements: a seamlessly-incorporated pre-constructed prompt, an injection prompt inducing context partition, and a malicious payload designed to fulfill the attack objectives. Leveraging HouYi, we unveil previously unknown and severe attack outcomes, such as unrestricted arbitrary LLM usage and uncomplicated application prompt theft. We deploy HouYi on 36 actual LLM-integrated applications and discern 31 applications susceptible to prompt injection. 10 vendors have validated our discoveries, including Notion, which has the potential to impact millions of users. Our investigation illuminates both the possible risks of prompt injection attacks and the possible tactics for mitigation.

------------

`[2306.08018] Mol-Instructions: A Large-Scale Biomolecular Instruction Dataset for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08018>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:49:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Ningyu Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Jun 2023 14:35:34 UTC (9,396 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 29 Aug 2023 17:13:05 UTC (14,371 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 2 Oct 2023 15:27:20 UTC (16,686 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 30 Nov 2023 15:29:58 UTC (18,066 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:49:31 UTC (17,523 KB)
    Yin Fang, Xiaozhuan Liang, Ningyu Zhang, Kangwei Liu, Rui Huang, Zhuo Chen, Xiaohui Fan, Huajun Chen

Large Language Models (LLMs), with their remarkable task-handling capabilities and innovative outputs, have catalyzed significant advancements across a spectrum of fields. However, their proficiency within specialized domains such as biomolecular studies remains limited. To address this challenge, we introduce Mol-Instructions, a comprehensive instruction dataset designed for the biomolecular domain. Mol-Instructions encompasses three key components: molecule-oriented instructions, protein-oriented instructions, and biomolecular text instructions. Each component aims to improve the understanding and prediction capabilities of LLMs concerning biomolecular features and behaviors. Through extensive instruction tuning experiments on LLMs, we demonstrate the effectiveness of Mol-Instructions in enhancing large models' performance in the intricate realm of biomolecular studies, thus fostering progress in the biomolecular research community. Mol-Instructions is publicly available for ongoing research and will undergo regular updates to enhance its applicability.

------------

`[2309.02561] Physically Grounded Vision-Language Models for Robotic Manipulation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02561>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 08:12:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Jensen Gao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 5 Sep 2023 20:21:03 UTC (45,809 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 13 Sep 2023 21:40:56 UTC (45,810 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 08:44:12 UTC (12,155 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 08:12:36 UTC (12,155 KB)
    Jensen Gao, Bidipta Sarkar, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Jiajun Wu, Brian Ichter, Anirudha Majumdar, Dorsa Sadigh

Recent advances in vision-language models (VLMs) have led to improved performance on tasks such as visual question answering and image captioning. Consequently, these models are now well-positioned to reason about the physical world, particularly within domains such as robotic manipulation. However, current VLMs are limited in their understanding of the physical concepts (e.g., material, fragility) of common objects, which restricts their usefulness for robotic manipulation tasks that involve interaction and physical reasoning about such objects. To address this limitation, we propose PhysObjects, an object-centric dataset of 39.6K crowd-sourced and 417K automated physical concept annotations of common household objects. We demonstrate that fine-tuning a VLM on PhysObjects improves its understanding of physical object concepts, including generalization to held-out concepts, by capturing human priors of these concepts from visual appearance. We incorporate this physically grounded VLM in an interactive framework with a large language model-based robotic planner, and show improved planning performance on tasks that require reasoning about physical object concepts, compared to baselines that do not leverage physically grounded VLMs. We additionally illustrate the benefits of our physically grounded VLM on a real robot, where it improves task success rates. We release our dataset and provide further details and visualizations of our results at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.16119] Ignore This Title and HackAPrompt: Exposing Systemic Vulnerabilities of LLMs through a Global Scale Prompt Hacking Competition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.16119>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 00:12:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Sander Schulhoff [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 24 Oct 2023 18:18:11 UTC (4,534 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 30 Nov 2023 23:15:04 UTC (4,756 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 00:12:16 UTC (4,756 KB)
    Sander Schulhoff, Jeremy Pinto, Anaum Khan, Louis-Fran\c{c}ois Bouchard, Chenglei Si, Svetlina Anati, Valen Tagliabue, Anson Liu Kost, Christopher Carnahan, Jordan Boyd-Graber

Large Language Models (LLMs) are deployed in interactive contexts with direct user engagement, such as chatbots and writing assistants. These deployments are vulnerable to prompt injection and jailbreaking (collectively, prompt hacking), in which models are manipulated to ignore their original instructions and follow potentially malicious ones. Although widely acknowledged as a significant security threat, there is a dearth of large-scale resources and quantitative studies on prompt hacking. To address this lacuna, we launch a global prompt hacking competition, which allows for free-form human input attacks. We elicit 600K+ adversarial prompts against three state-of-the-art LLMs. We describe the dataset, which empirically verifies that current LLMs can indeed be manipulated via prompt hacking. We also present a comprehensive taxonomical ontology of the types of adversarial prompts.

------------

`[2402.12728] Modality-Aware Integration with Large Language Models for Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12728>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 3 Mar 2024 04:51:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Junnan Dong [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 05:32:24 UTC (408 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 04:51:28 UTC (402 KB)
    Junnan Dong, Qinggang Zhang, Huachi Zhou, Daochen Zha, Pai Zheng, Xiao Huang

Knowledge-based visual question answering (KVQA) has been extensively studied to answer visual questions with external knowledge, e.g., knowledge graphs (KGs). While several attempts have been proposed to leverage large language models (LLMs) as an implicit knowledge source, it remains challenging since LLMs may generate hallucinations. Moreover, multiple knowledge sources, e.g., images, KGs and LLMs, cannot be readily aligned for complex scenarios. To tackle these, we present a novel modality-aware integration with LLMs for KVQA (MAIL). It carefully leverages multimodal knowledge for both image understanding and knowledge reasoning. Specifically, (i) we propose a two-stage prompting strategy with LLMs to densely embody the image into a scene graph with detailed visual features; (ii) We construct a coupled concept graph by linking the mentioned entities with external facts. (iii) A tailored pseudo-siamese graph medium fusion is designed for sufficient multimodal fusion. We utilize the shared mentioned entities in two graphs as mediums to bridge a tight inter-modal exchange, while maximally preserving insightful intra-modal learning by constraining the fusion within mediums. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets show the superiority of MAIL with 24x less resources.

------------

`[2402.15727] LLMs Can Defend Themselves Against Jailbreaking in a Practical Manner: A Vision Paper <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15727>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 05:37:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Daoyuan Wu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 24 Feb 2024 05:34:43 UTC (1,711 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 05:37:40 UTC (1,711 KB)
    Daoyuan Wu and Shuai Wang and Yang Liu and Ning Liu

Jailbreaking is an emerging adversarial attack that bypasses the safety alignment deployed in off-the-shelf large language models (LLMs). A considerable amount of research exists proposing more effective jailbreak attacks, including the recent Greedy Coordinate Gradient (GCG) attack, jailbreak template-based attacks such as using "Do-Anything-Now" (DAN), and multilingual jailbreak. In contrast, the defensive side has been relatively less explored. This paper proposes a lightweight yet practical defense called SELFDEFEND, which can defend against all existing jailbreak attacks with minimal delay for jailbreak prompts and negligible delay for normal user prompts. Our key insight is that regardless of the kind of jailbreak strategies employed, they eventually need to include a harmful prompt (e.g., "how to make a bomb") in the prompt sent to LLMs, and we found that existing LLMs can effectively recognize such harmful prompts that violate their safety policies. Based on this insight, we design a shadow stack that concurrently checks whether a harmful prompt exists in the user prompt and triggers a checkpoint in the normal stack once a token of "No" or a harmful prompt is output. The latter could also generate an explainable LLM response to adversarial prompts. We demonstrate our idea of SELFDEFEND works in various jailbreak scenarios through manual analysis in GPT-3.5/4. We also list three future directions to further enhance SELFDEFEND.

------------

`[2402.15943] Rethinking Software Engineering in the Foundation Model Era: A Curated Catalogue of Challenges in the Development of Trustworthy FMware <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15943>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 04:22:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Gustavo Ansaldi Oliva [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 00:53:16 UTC (864 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 04:22:37 UTC (938 KB)
    Ahmed E. Hassan, Dayi Lin, Gopi Krishnan Rajbahadur, Keheliya Gallaba, Filipe R. Cogo, Boyuan Chen, Haoxiang Zhang, Kishanthan Thangarajah, Gustavo Ansaldi Oliva, Jiahuei Lin, Wali Mohammad Abdullah, Zhen Ming Jiang

Foundation models (FMs), such as Large Language Models (LLMs), have revolutionized software development by enabling new use cases and business models. We refer to software built using FMs as FMware. The unique properties of FMware (e.g., prompts, agents, and the need for orchestration), coupled with the intrinsic limitations of FMs (e.g., hallucination) lead to a completely new set of software engineering challenges. Based on our industrial experience, we identified 10 key SE4FMware challenges that have caused enterprise FMware development to be unproductive, costly, and risky. In this paper, we discuss these challenges in detail and state the path for innovation that we envision. Next, we present FMArts, which is our long-term effort towards creating a cradle-to-grave platform for the engineering of trustworthy FMware. Finally, we (i) show how the unique properties of FMArts enabled us to design and develop a complex FMware for a large customer in a timely manner and (ii) discuss the lessons that we learned in doing so. We hope that the disclosure of the aforementioned challenges and our associated efforts to tackle them will not only raise awareness but also promote deeper and further discussions, knowledge sharing, and innovative solutions across the software engineering discipline.

------------

`[2402.16906] LDB: A Large Language Model Debugger via Verifying Runtime Execution Step-by-step <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16906>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 00:04:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Li Zhong [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 00:56:27 UTC (782 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 00:04:53 UTC (782 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:16:01 UTC (782 KB)
    Li Zhong, Zilong Wang, Jingbo Shang

Large language models (LLMs) are leading significant progress in code generation. Beyond one-pass code generation, recent works further integrate unit tests and program verifiers into LLMs to iteratively refine the generated programs. However, these works consider the generated programs as an indivisible entity, which falls short for LLMs in debugging the programs, especially when the programs contain complex logic flows and data operations. In contrast, when human developers debug programs, they typically set breakpoints and selectively examine runtime execution information. The execution flow and the intermediate variables play a crucial role in the debugging process, yet they are underutilized in the existing literature on code generation. In this study, we introduce Large Language Model Debugger (LDB), a novel debugging framework that enables LLMs to refine their generated programs with the runtime execution information. Specifically, LDB segments the programs into basic blocks and tracks the values of intermediate variables after each block throughout the runtime execution. This allows LLMs to concentrate on simpler code units within the overall execution flow, verify their correctness against the task description block by block, and efficiently pinpoint any potential errors. Experiments demonstrate that LDB consistently enhances the baseline performance by up to 9.8% across the HumanEval, MBPP, and TransCoder benchmarks, archiving new state-of-the-art performance in code debugging for various LLM selections.

------------

`[2402.18205] Lemur: Log Parsing with Entropy Sampling and Chain-of-Thought Merging <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18205>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 03:47:13 GMT
    Submission history From: Hongcheng Guo [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 09:51:55 UTC (868 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 03:47:13 UTC (868 KB)
    Wei Zhang, Hongcheng Guo, Anjie Le, Jian Yang, Jiaheng Liu, Zhoujun Li, Tieqiao Zheng, Shi Xu, Runqiang Zang, Liangfan Zheng, Bo Zhang

Logs produced by extensive software systems are integral to monitoring system behaviors. Advanced log analysis facilitates the detection, alerting, and diagnosis of system faults. Log parsing, which entails transforming raw log messages into structured templates, constitutes a critical phase in the automation of log analytics. Existing log parsers fail to identify the correct templates due to reliance on human-made rules. Besides, These methods focus on statistical features while ignoring semantic information in log messages. To address these challenges, we introduce a cutting-edge \textbf{L}og parsing framework with \textbf{E}ntropy sampling and Chain-of-Thought \textbf{M}erging (Lemur). Specifically, to discard the tedious manual rules. We propose a novel sampling method inspired by information entropy, which efficiently clusters typical logs. Furthermore, to enhance the merging of log templates, we design a chain-of-thought method for large language models (LLMs). LLMs exhibit exceptional semantic comprehension, deftly distinguishing between parameters and invariant tokens. We have conducted experiments on large-scale public datasets. Extensive evaluation demonstrates that Lemur achieves the state-of-the-art performance and impressive efficiency.

------------

`[2402.18590] Exploring the Impact of Large Language Models on Recommender Systems: An Extensive Review <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18590>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 2 Mar 2024 19:29:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Aman Chadha Mr. [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 11 Feb 2024 00:24:17 UTC (701 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 19:29:40 UTC (143 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 19 Mar 2024 07:56:40 UTC (143 KB)
    Arpita Vats, Vinija Jain, Rahul Raja, Aman Chadha

The paper underscores the significance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in reshaping recommender systems, attributing their value to unique reasoning abilities absent in traditional recommenders. Unlike conventional systems lacking direct user interaction data, LLMs exhibit exceptional proficiency in recommending items, showcasing their adeptness in comprehending intricacies of language. This marks a fundamental paradigm shift in the realm of recommendations. Amidst the dynamic research landscape, researchers actively harness the language comprehension and generation capabilities of LLMs to redefine the foundations of recommendation tasks. The investigation thoroughly explores the inherent strengths of LLMs within recommendation frameworks, encompassing nuanced contextual comprehension, seamless transitions across diverse domains, adoption of unified approaches, holistic learning strategies leveraging shared data reservoirs, transparent decision-making, and iterative improvements. Despite their transformative potential, challenges persist, including sensitivity to input prompts, occasional misinterpretations, and unforeseen recommendations, necessitating continuous refinement and evolution in LLM-driven recommender systems.

------------

`[2312.07358] Distributional Bellman Operators over Mean Embeddings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07358>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:54:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Li Wenliang [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 9 Dec 2023 11:36:14 UTC (619 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 22:49:37 UTC (660 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 16:54:22 UTC (660 KB)
    Li Kevin Wenliang, Gr\'egoire Del\'etang, Matthew Aitchison, Marcus Hutter, Anian Ruoss, Arthur Gretton, Mark Rowland

We propose a novel algorithmic framework for distributional reinforcement learning, based on learning finite-dimensional mean embeddings of return distributions. We derive several new algorithms for dynamic programming and temporal-difference learning based on this framework, provide asymptotic convergence theory, and examine the empirical performance of the algorithms on a suite of tabular tasks. Further, we show that this approach can be straightforwardly combined with deep reinforcement learning, and obtain a new deep RL agent that improves over baseline distributional approaches on the Arcade Learning Environment.
