240312
========

`[2403.05632] Can Large Language Models Play Games? A Case Study of A Self-Play Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05632>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 19:16:29 GMT
    Hongyi Guo, Zhihan Liu, Yufeng Zhang, Zhaoran Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) harness extensive data from the Internet, storing a broad spectrum of prior knowledge. While LLMs have proven beneficial as decision-making aids, their reliability is hampered by limitations in reasoning, hallucination phenomenon, and so on. On the other hand, Monte-Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is a heuristic search algorithm that provides reliable decision-making solutions, achieved through recursive rollouts and self-play.
However, the effectiveness of MCTS relies heavily on heuristic pruning and external value functions, particularly in complex decision scenarios. This work introduces an innovative approach that bolsters LLMs with MCTS self-play to efficiently resolve deterministic turn-based zero-sum games (DTZG), such as chess and go, without the need for additional training. Specifically, we utilize LLMs as both action pruners and proxies for value functions without the need for additional training. We theoretically prove that the suboptimality of the estimated value in our proposed method scales with $\tilde{\mathcal O}\Bigl(\frac{|\tilde {\mathcal A}|}{\sqrt{N}} + \epsilon_\mathrm{pruner} + \epsilon_\mathrm{critic}\Bigr)$, where \(N\) is the number of simulations, $|\tilde {\mathcal A}|$ is the cardinality of the pruned action space by LLM, and $\epsilon_\mathrm{pruner}$ and $\epsilon_\mathrm{critic}$ quantify the errors incurred by adopting LLMs as action space pruner and value function proxy, respectively. Our experiments in chess and go demonstrate the capability of our method to address challenges beyond the scope of MCTS and improve the performance of the directly application of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.05636] Tuning-Free Accountable Intervention for LLM Deployment -- A Metacognitive Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05636>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 19:18:53 GMT
    Zhen Tan, Jie Peng, Tianlong Chen, Huan Liu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have catalyzed transformative advances across a spectrum of natural language processing tasks through few-shot or zero-shot prompting, bypassing the need for parameter tuning. While convenient, this modus operandi aggravates ``hallucination'' concerns, particularly given the enigmatic ``black-box'' nature behind their gigantic model sizes. Such concerns are exacerbated in high-stakes applications (e.g., healthcare), where unaccountable decision errors can lead to devastating consequences. In contrast, human decision-making relies on nuanced cognitive processes, such as the ability to sense and adaptively correct misjudgments through conceptual understanding. Drawing inspiration from human cognition, we propose an innovative \textit{metacognitive} approach, dubbed \textbf{CLEAR}, to equip LLMs with capabilities for self-aware error identification and correction. Our framework facilitates the construction of concept-specific sparse subnetworks that illuminate transparent decision pathways. This provides a novel interface for model \textit{intervention} after deployment. Our intervention offers compelling advantages: (\textit{i})~at deployment or inference time, our metacognitive LLMs can self-consciously identify potential mispredictions with minimum human involvement, (\textit{ii})~the model has the capability to self-correct its errors efficiently, obviating the need for additional tuning, and (\textit{iii})~the rectification procedure is not only self-explanatory but also user-friendly, enhancing the interpretability and accessibility of the model. By integrating these metacognitive features, our approach pioneers a new path toward engendering greater trustworthiness and accountability in the deployment of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.05641] A Feature-based Generalizable Prediction Model for Both Perceptual and Abstract Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05641>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 19:26:30 GMT
    Quan Do, Thomas M. Morin, Chantal E. Stern, Michael E. Hasselmo

A hallmark of human intelligence is the ability to infer abstract rules from limited experience and apply these rules to unfamiliar situations. This capacity is widely studied in the visual domain using the Raven's Progressive Matrices. Recent advances in deep learning have led to multiple artificial neural network models matching or even surpassing human performance. However, while humans can identify and express the rule underlying these tasks with little to no exposure, contemporary neural networks often rely on massive pattern-based training and cannot express or extrapolate the rule inferred from the task. Furthermore, most Raven's Progressive Matrices or Raven-like tasks used for neural network training used symbolic representations, whereas humans can flexibly switch between symbolic and continuous perceptual representations.
In this work, we present an algorithmic approach to rule detection and application using feature detection, affine transformation estimation and search. We applied our model to a simplified Raven's Progressive Matrices task, previously designed for behavioral testing and neuroimaging in humans. The model exhibited one-shot learning and achieved near human-level performance in the symbolic reasoning condition of the simplified task. Furthermore, the model can express the relationships discovered and generate multi-step predictions in accordance with the underlying rule. Finally, the model can reason using continuous patterns. We discuss our results and their relevance to studying abstract reasoning in humans, as well as their implications for improving intelligent machines.

------------

`[2403.05680] Decomposing Vision-based LLM Predictions for Auto-Evaluation with GPT-4 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05680>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 21:16:28 GMT
    Qingqing Zhu, Benjamin Hou, Tejas S. Mathai, Pritam Mukherjee, Qiao Jin, Xiuying Chen, Zhizheng Wang, Ruida Cheng, Ronald M. Summers, and Zhiyong Lu

The volume of CT exams being done in the world has been rising every year, which has led to radiologist burn-out. Large Language Models (LLMs) have the potential to reduce their burden, but their adoption in the clinic depends on radiologist trust, and easy evaluation of generated content. Presently, many automated methods are available to evaluate the reports generated for chest radiographs, but such an approach is not available for CT presently. In this paper, we propose a novel evaluation framework to judge the capabilities of vision-language LLMs in generating accurate summaries of CT-based abnormalities. CT slices containing an abnormality (e.g., lesion) were input to a vision-based LLM (GPT-4V, LLaVA-Med, and RadFM), and it generated a free-text summary of the predicted characteristics of the abnormality. Next, a GPT-4 model decomposed the summary into specific aspects (body part, location, type, and attributes), automatically evaluated the characteristics against the ground-truth, and generated a score for each aspect based on its clinical relevance and factual accuracy. These scores were then contrasted against those obtained from a clinician, and a high correlation ( 85%, p < .001) was observed. Although GPT-4V outperformed other models in our evaluation, it still requires overall improvement. Our evaluation method offers valuable insights into the specific areas that need the most enhancement, guiding future development in this field.

------------

`[2403.06221] TRAD: Enhancing LLM Agents with Step-Wise Thought Retrieval and Aligned Decision <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06221>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:58:38 GMT
    Ruiwen Zhou, Yingxuan Yang, Muning Wen, Ying Wen, Wenhao Wang, Chunling Xi, Guoqiang Xu, Yong Yu, Weinan Zhang

Numerous large language model (LLM) agents have been built for different tasks like web navigation and online shopping due to LLM's wide knowledge and text-understanding ability. Among these works, many of them utilize in-context examples to achieve generalization without the need for fine-tuning, while few of them have considered the problem of how to select and effectively utilize these examples. Recently, methods based on trajectory-level retrieval with task meta-data and using trajectories as in-context examples have been proposed to improve the agent's overall performance in some sequential decision making tasks. However, these methods can be problematic due to plausible examples retrieved without task-specific state transition dynamics and long input with plenty of irrelevant context. In this paper, we propose a novel framework (TRAD) to address these issues. TRAD first conducts Thought Retrieval, achieving step-level demonstration selection via thought matching, leading to more helpful demonstrations and less irrelevant input noise. Then, TRAD introduces Aligned Decision, complementing retrieved demonstration steps with their previous or subsequent steps, which enables tolerance for imperfect thought and provides a choice for balance between more context and less noise.
Extensive experiments on ALFWorld and Mind2Web benchmarks show that TRAD not only outperforms state-of-the-art models but also effectively helps in reducing noise and promoting generalization. Furthermore, TRAD has been deployed in real-world scenarios of a global business insurance company and improves the success rate of robotic process automation.

------------

`[2403.06294] ArgMed-Agents: Explainable Clinical Decision Reasoning with Large Language Models via Argumentation Schemes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06294>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 19:47:00 GMT
    Shengxin Hong, Liang Xiao, Xin Zhang, Jianxia Chen

There are two main barriers to using large language models (LLMs) in clinical reasoning. Firstly, while LLMs exhibit significant promise in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, their performance in complex reasoning and planning falls short of expectations. Secondly, LLMs use uninterpretable methods to make clinical decisions that are fundamentally different from the clinician's cognitive processes. This leads to user distrust. In this paper, we present a multi-agent framework called ArgMed-Agents, which aims to enable LLM-based agents to make explainable clinical decision reasoning through interaction.
ArgMed-Agents performs self-argumentation iterations via Argumentation Scheme for Clinical Decision (a reasoning mechanism for modeling cognitive processes in clinical reasoning), and then constructs the argumentation process as a directed graph representing conflicting relationships. Ultimately, Reasoner(a symbolic solver) identify a series of rational and coherent arguments to support decision. ArgMed-Agents enables LLMs to mimic the process of clinical argumentative reasoning by generating explanations of reasoning in a self-directed manner. The setup experiments show that ArgMed-Agents not only improves accuracy in complex clinical decision reasoning problems compared to other prompt methods, but more importantly, it provides users with decision explanations that increase their confidence.

------------

`[2403.06734] Real-Time Multimodal Cognitive Assistant for Emergency Medical Services <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06734>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 13:56:57 GMT
    Keshara Weerasinghe, Saahith Janapati, Xueren Ge, Sion Kim, Sneha Iyer, John A. Stankovic, Homa Alemzadeh

Emergency Medical Services (EMS) responders often operate under time-sensitive conditions, facing cognitive overload and inherent risks, requiring essential skills in critical thinking and rapid decision-making. This paper presents CognitiveEMS, an end-to-end wearable cognitive assistant system that can act as a collaborative virtual partner engaging in the real-time acquisition and analysis of multimodal data from an emergency scene and interacting with EMS responders through Augmented Reality (AR) smart glasses.
CognitiveEMS processes the continuous streams of data in real-time and leverages edge computing to provide assistance in EMS protocol selection and intervention recognition. We address key technical challenges in real-time cognitive assistance by introducing three novel components: (i) a Speech Recognition model that is fine-tuned for real-world medical emergency conversations using simulated EMS audio recordings, augmented with synthetic data generated by large language models (LLMs); (ii) an EMS Protocol Prediction model that combines state-of-the-art (SOTA) tiny language models with EMS domain knowledge using graph-based attention mechanisms; (iii) an EMS Action Recognition module which leverages multimodal audio and video data and protocol predictions to infer the intervention/treatment actions taken by the responders at the incident scene. Our results show that for speech recognition we achieve superior performance compared to SOTA (WER of 0.290 vs. 0.618) on conversational data. Our protocol prediction component also significantly outperforms SOTA (top-3 accuracy of 0.800 vs. 0.200) and the action recognition achieves an accuracy of 0.727, while maintaining an end-to-end latency of 3.78s for protocol prediction on the edge and 0.31s on the server.

------------

`[2403.05676] PipeRAG: Fast Retrieval-Augmented Generation via Algorithm-System Co-design <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05676>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 21:09:20 GMT
    Wenqi Jiang, Shuai Zhang, Boran Han, Jie Wang, Bernie Wang, Tim Kraska

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) can enhance the generation quality of large language models (LLMs) by incorporating external token databases.
However, retrievals from large databases can constitute a substantial portion of the overall generation time, particularly when retrievals are periodically performed to align the retrieved content with the latest states of generation.
In this paper, we introduce PipeRAG, a novel algorithm-system co-design approach to reduce generation latency and enhance generation quality. PipeRAG integrates (1) pipeline parallelism to enable concurrent retrieval and generation processes, (2) flexible retrieval intervals to maximize the efficiency of pipeline parallelism, and (3) a performance model to automatically balance retrieval quality and latency based on the generation states and underlying hardware. Our evaluation shows that, by combining the three aforementioned methods, PipeRAG achieves up to 2.6$\times$ speedup in end-to-end generation latency while improving generation quality. These promising results showcase the effectiveness of co-designing algorithms with underlying systems, paving the way for the adoption of PipeRAG in future RAG systems.

------------

`[2403.05696] SeeGULL Multilingual: a Dataset of Geo-Culturally Situated Stereotypes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05696>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 22:09:58 GMT
    Mukul Bhutani, Kevin Robinson, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran, Shachi Dave, Sunipa Dev

While generative multilingual models are rapidly being deployed, their safety and fairness evaluations are largely limited to resources collected in English.
This is especially problematic for evaluations targeting inherently socio-cultural phenomena such as stereotyping, where it is important to build multi-lingual resources that reflect the stereotypes prevalent in respective language communities. However, gathering these resources, at scale, in varied languages and regions pose a significant challenge as it requires broad socio-cultural knowledge and can also be prohibitively expensive. To overcome this critical gap, we employ a recently introduced approach that couples LLM generations for scale with culturally situated validations for reliability, and build SeeGULL Multilingual, a global-scale multilingual dataset of social stereotypes, containing over 25K stereotypes, spanning 20 languages, with human annotations across 23 regions, and demonstrate its utility in identifying gaps in model evaluations. Content warning: Stereotypes shared in this paper can be offensive.

------------

`[2403.05720] A Benchmark of Domain-Adapted Large Language Models for Generating Brief Hospital Course Summaries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05720>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 23:17:55 GMT
    Asad Aali, Dave Van Veen, Yamin Ishraq Arefeen, Jason Hom, Christian Bluethgen, Eduardo Pontes Reis, Sergios Gatidis, Namuun Clifford, Joseph Daws, Arash S. Tehrani, Jangwon Kim, Akshay S. Chaudhari

Brief hospital course (BHC) summaries are common clinical documents generated by summarizing clinical notes. While large language models (LLMs) depict remarkable capabilities in automating real-world tasks, their capabilities for healthcare applications such as BHC synthesis have not been shown. To enable the adaptation of LLMs for BHC synthesis, we introduce a novel benchmark consisting of a pre-processed dataset extracted from MIMIC-IV notes, encapsulating clinical note, and brief hospital course (BHC) pairs. We assess the performance of two general-purpose LLMs and three healthcare-adapted LLMs to improve BHC synthesis from clinical notes. Using clinical notes as input for generating BHCs, we apply prompting-based (using in-context learning) and fine-tuning-based adaptation strategies to three open-source LLMs (Clinical-T5-Large, Llama2-13B, FLAN-UL2) and two proprietary LLMs (GPT-3.5, GPT-4). We quantitatively evaluate the performance of these LLMs across varying context-length inputs using conventional natural language similarity metrics.
We further perform a qualitative study where five diverse clinicians blindly compare clinician-written BHCs and two LLM-generated BHCs for 30 samples across metrics of comprehensiveness, conciseness, factual correctness, and fluency.
Overall, we present a new benchmark and pre-processed dataset for using LLMs in BHC synthesis from clinical notes. We observe high-quality summarization performance for both in-context proprietary and fine-tuned open-source LLMs using both quantitative metrics and a qualitative clinical reader study. We propose our work as a benchmark to motivate future works to adapt and assess the performance of LLMs in BHC synthesis.

------------

`[2403.05750] Decoding the AI Pen: Techniques and Challenges in Detecting AI-Generated Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05750>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 01:13:54 GMT
    Sara Abdali, Richard Anarfi, CJ Barberan, Jia He

Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized the field of Natural Language Generation (NLG) by demonstrating an impressive ability to generate human-like text. However, their widespread usage introduces challenges that necessitate thoughtful examination, ethical scrutiny, and responsible practices. In this study, we delve into these challenges, explore existing strategies for mitigating them, with a particular emphasis on identifying AI-generated text as the ultimate solution. Additionally, we assess the feasibility of detection from a theoretical perspective and propose novel research directions to address the current limitations in this domain.

------------

`[2403.05766] FLAP: Flow Adhering Planning with Constrained Decoding in LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05766>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 02:27:45 GMT
    Shamik Roy, Sailik Sengupta, Daniele Bonadiman, Saab Mansour, Arshit Gupta

Planning is a crucial task for agents in task oriented dialogs (TODs). Human agents typically resolve user issues by following predefined workflows, decomposing workflow steps into actionable items, and performing actions by executing APIs in order; all of which require reasoning and planning. With the recent advances in LLMs, there have been increasing attempts to use LLMs for task planning and API usage. However, the faithfulness of the plans to predefined workflows and API dependencies, is not guaranteed with LLMs because of their bias towards pretraining data. Moreover, in real life, workflows are custom-defined and prone to change, hence, quickly adapting agents to the changes is desirable. In this paper, we study faithful planning in TODs to resolve user intents by following predefined flows and preserving API dependencies. We propose a constrained decoding algorithm based on lookahead heuristic for faithful planning. Our algorithm alleviates the need for finetuning LLMs using domain specific data, outperforms other decoding and prompting-based baselines, and applying our algorithm on smaller LLMs (7B) we achieve comparable performance to larger LLMs (30B-40B).

------------

`[2403.05789] ItD: Large Language Models Can Teach Themselves Induction through Deduction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05789>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 04:20:46 GMT
    Wangtao Sun, Haotian Xu, Xuanqing Yu, Pei Chen, Shizhu He, Jun Zhao, Kang Liu

Although Large Language Models (LLMs) are showing impressive performance on a wide range of Natural Language Processing tasks, researchers have found that they still have limited ability to conduct induction. Recent works mainly adopt ``post processes'' paradigms to improve the performance of LLMs on induction (e.g., the hypothesis search & refinement methods), but their performance is still constrained by the inherent inductive capability of the LLMs. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, Induction through Deduction (ItD), to enable the LLMs to teach themselves induction through deduction. The ItD framework is composed of two main components: a Deductive Data Generation module to generate induction data and a Naive Bayesian Induction module to optimize the fine-tuning and decoding of LLMs. Our empirical results showcase the effectiveness of ItD on two induction benchmarks, achieving relative performance improvement of 36% and 10% compared with previous state-of-the-art, respectively. Our ablation study verifies the effectiveness of two key modules of ItD. We also verify the effectiveness of ItD across different LLMs and deductors. The data and code of this paper can be found at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/ItD-E844.

------------

`[2403.05814] MP2D: An Automated Topic Shift Dialogue Generation Framework Leveraging Knowledge Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05814>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 06:28:48 GMT
    Yerin Hwang, Yongil Kim, Yunah Jang, Jeesoo Bang, Hyunkyung Bae, Kyomin Jung

Despite advancements in on-topic dialogue systems, effectively managing topic shifts within dialogues remains a persistent challenge, largely attributed to the limited availability of training datasets. To address this issue, we propose Multi-Passage to Dialogue (MP2D), a data generation framework that automatically creates conversational question-answering datasets with natural topic transitions. By leveraging the relationships between entities in a knowledge graph, MP2D maps the flow of topics within a dialogue, effectively mirroring the dynamics of human conversation. It retrieves relevant passages corresponding to the topics and transforms them into dialogues through the passage-to-dialogue method. Through quantitative and qualitative experiments, we demonstrate MP2D's efficacy in generating dialogue with natural topic shifts. Furthermore, this study introduces a novel benchmark for topic shift dialogues, TS-WikiDialog. Utilizing the dataset, we demonstrate that even Large Language Models (LLMs) struggle to handle topic shifts in dialogue effectively, and we showcase the performance improvements of models trained on datasets generated by MP2D across diverse topic shift dialogue tasks.

------------

`[2403.05845] Reverse That Number! Decoding Order Matters in Arithmetic Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05845>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 09:04:53 GMT
    Daniel Zhang-Li, Nianyi Lin, Jifan Yu, Zheyuan Zhang, Zijun Yao, Xiaokang Zhang, Lei Hou, Jing Zhang, Juanzi Li

Recent advancements in pretraining have demonstrated that modern Large Language Models (LLMs) possess the capability to effectively learn arithmetic operations. However, despite acknowledging the significance of digit order in arithmetic computation, current methodologies predominantly rely on sequential, step-by-step approaches for teaching LLMs arithmetic, resulting in a conclusion where obtaining better performance involves fine-grained step-by-step.
Diverging from this conventional path, our work introduces a novel strategy that not only reevaluates the digit order by prioritizing output from the least significant digit but also incorporates a step-by-step methodology to substantially reduce complexity. We have developed and applied this method in a comprehensive set of experiments. Compared to the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) method, our findings reveal an overall improvement of in accuracy while requiring only a third of the tokens typically used during training. For the purpose of facilitating replication and further research, we have made our code and dataset publicly available at \url{https://anonymous.4open.science/r/RAIT-9FB7/}.

------------

`[2403.05881] KG-Rank: Enhancing Large Language Models for Medical QA with Knowledge Graphs and Ranking Techniques <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05881>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 11:23:38 GMT
    Rui Yang, Haoran Liu, Qingcheng Zeng, Yu He Ke, Wanxin Li, Lechao Cheng, Qingyu Chen, James Caverlee, Yutaka Matsuo, Irene Li

Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced healthcare innovation on generation capabilities. However, their application in real clinical settings is challenging due to potential deviations from medical facts and inherent biases. In this work, we develop an augmented LLM framework, KG-Rank, which leverages a medical knowledge graph (KG) with ranking and re-ranking techniques, aiming to improve free-text question-answering (QA) in the medical domain. Specifically, upon receiving a question, we initially retrieve triplets from a medical KG to gather factual information.
Subsequently, we innovatively apply ranking methods to refine the ordering of these triplets, aiming to yield more precise answers. To the best of our knowledge, KG-Rank is the first application of ranking models combined with KG in medical QA specifically for generating long answers. Evaluation of four selected medical QA datasets shows that KG-Rank achieves an improvement of over 18% in the ROUGE-L score. Moreover, we extend KG-Rank to open domains, where it realizes a 14% improvement in ROUGE-L, showing the effectiveness and potential of KG-Rank.

------------

`[2403.05920] High Throughput Phenotyping of Physician Notes with Large Language and Hybrid NLP Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05920>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 14:02:59 GMT
    Syed I. Munzir, Daniel B. Hier, Michael D. Carrithers

Deep phenotyping is the detailed description of patient signs and symptoms using concepts from an ontology. The deep phenotyping of the numerous physician notes in electronic health records requires high throughput methods. Over the past thirty years, progress toward making high throughput phenotyping feasible.
In this study, we demonstrate that a large language model and a hybrid NLP model (combining word vectors with a machine learning classifier) can perform high throughput phenotyping on physician notes with high accuracy. Large language models will likely emerge as the preferred method for high throughput deep phenotyping of physician notes.

------------

`[2403.05931] Thread Detection and Response Generation using Transformers with Prompt Optimisation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05931>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 14:50:20 GMT
    Kevin Joshua T, Arnav Agarwal, Shriya Sanjay, Yash Sarda, John Sahaya Rani Alex, Saurav Gupta, Sushant Kumar, Vishwanath Kamath

Conversational systems are crucial for human-computer interaction, managing complex dialogues by identifying threads and prioritising responses. This is especially vital in multi-party conversations, where precise identification of threads and strategic response prioritisation ensure efficient dialogue management. To address these challenges an end-to-end model that identifies threads and prioritises their response generation based on the importance was developed, involving a systematic decomposition of the problem into discrete components - thread detection, prioritisation, and performance optimisation which was meticulously analysed and optimised. These refined components seamlessly integrate into a unified framework, in conversational systems.
Llama2 7b is used due to its high level of generalisation but the system can be updated with any open source Large Language Model(LLM). The computational capabilities of the Llama2 model was augmented by using fine tuning methods and strategic prompting techniques to optimise the model's performance, reducing computational time and increasing the accuracy of the model. The model achieves up to 10x speed improvement, while generating more coherent results compared to existing models.

------------

`[2403.05973] Calibrating Large Language Models Using Their Generations Only <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05973>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 17:46:24 GMT
    Dennis Ulmer, Martin Gubri, Hwaran Lee, Sangdoo Yun, Seong Joon Oh

As large language models (LLMs) are increasingly deployed in user-facing applications, building trust and maintaining safety by accurately quantifying a model's confidence in its prediction becomes even more important. However, finding effective ways to calibrate LLMs - especially when the only interface to the models is their generated text - remains a challenge. We propose APRICOT (auxiliary prediction of confidence targets): A method to set confidence targets and train an additional model that predicts an LLM's confidence based on its textual input and output alone. This approach has several advantages: It is conceptually simple, does not require access to the target model beyond its output, does not interfere with the language generation, and has a multitude of potential usages, for instance by verbalizing the predicted confidence or adjusting the given answer based on the confidence. We show how our approach performs competitively in terms of calibration error for white-box and black-box LLMs on closed-book question-answering to detect incorrect LLM answers.

------------

`[2403.06018] Few-Shot Cross-Lingual Transfer for Prompting Large Language Models in Low-Resource Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06018>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 21:36:13 GMT
    Christopher Toukmaji

Large pre-trained language models (PLMs) are at the forefront of advances in Natural Language Processing. One widespread use case of PLMs is "prompting" - or in-context learning - where a user provides a description of a task and some completed examples of the task to a PLM as context before prompting the PLM to perform the task on a new example. Only the largest, most capable PLMs are able to perform in-context learning effectively, and these models are typically trained with a predominantly English corpus, leaving all other languages behind. The data limitations in most languages preclude the training of language-specific PLMs capable of prompting. Albeit the surge in work of prompting settings, it is still unclear how PLMs should be adapted cross-lingually specifically for prompting. We evaluate the possible methods to adapt LLaMa, a 7B parameter open-source PLM mainly trained in English, for prompting in low-resource languages, namely for Kinyarwanda, Hausa, and Luganda. We consider three methods: few-shot prompting (prompt), language-adaptive fine-tuning (LAFT), and neural machine translation (translate), and evaluate on abstractive summarization, multi-class topic classification, and named-entity recognition. Although LAFT carries the greatest compute cost and intuitively should lead to the best results, our experiments exhibit that LAFT is only occasionally the optimal choice for adapting PLMs for prompting. Rather, the translate and prompt settings are a compute-efficient and cost-effective method of few-shot prompting for the selected low-resource languages. We find that the results are task and language dependent but find that the prompting method is the best on average across all tasks and languages. Results show that the prompt setting performs better than both translating and LAFT with statistical significance for all shots when aggregated across all tasks and languages.

------------

`[2403.06097] Can LLM Substitute Human Labeling? A Case Study of Fine-grained Chinese Address Entity Recognition Dataset for UAV Delivery <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06097>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 05:12:16 GMT
    Yuxuan Yao, Sichun Luo, Haohan Zhao, Guanzhi Deng, Linqi Song

We present CNER-UAV, a fine-grained \textbf{C}hinese \textbf{N}ame \textbf{E}ntity \textbf{R}ecognition dataset specifically designed for the task of address resolution in \textbf{U}nmanned \textbf{A}erial \textbf{V}ehicle delivery systems. The dataset encompasses a diverse range of five categories, enabling comprehensive training and evaluation of NER models. To construct this dataset, we sourced the data from a real-world UAV delivery system and conducted a rigorous data cleaning and desensitization process to ensure privacy and data integrity. The resulting dataset, consisting of around 12,000 annotated samples, underwent human experts and \textbf{L}arge \textbf{L}anguage \textbf{M}odel annotation. We evaluated classical NER models on our dataset and provided in-depth analysis. The dataset and models are publicly available at \url{https://github.com/zhhvvv/CNER-UAV}.

------------

`[2403.06108] Large Language Models on Fine-grained Emotion Detection Dataset with Data Augmentation and Transfer Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06108>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:30:54 GMT
    Kaipeng Wang, Zhi Jing, Yongye Su, Yikun Han

This paper delves into enhancing the classification performance on the GoEmotions dataset, a large, manually annotated dataset for emotion detection in text. The primary goal of this paper is to address the challenges of detecting subtle emotions in text, a complex issue in Natural Language Processing (NLP) with significant practical applications. The findings offer valuable insights into addressing the challenges of emotion detection in text and suggest directions for future research, including the potential for a survey paper that synthesizes methods and performances across various datasets in this domain.

------------

`[2403.06115] FMPAF: How Do Fed Chairs Affect the Financial Market? A Fine-grained Monetary Policy Analysis Framework on Their Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06115>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 07:21:31 GMT
    Yayue Deng, Mohan Xu, Yao Tang

The effectiveness of central bank communication is a crucial aspect of monetary policy transmission. While recent research has examined the influence of policy communication by the chairs of the Federal Reserve on various financial variables, much of the literature relies on rule-based or dictionary-based methods in parsing the language of the chairs, leaving nuanced information about policy stance contained in nonverbal emotion out of the analysis. In the current study, we propose the Fine-Grained Monetary Policy Analysis Framework (FMPAF), a novel approach that integrates large language models (LLMs) with regression analysis to provide a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the press-conference communications of chairs of the Federal Reserve on financial markets. We conduct extensive comparisons of model performance under different levels of granularity, modalities, and communication scenarios. Based on our preferred specification, a one-unit increase in the sentiment score is associated with an increase of the price of S\&P 500 Exchange-Traded Fund by approximately 500 basis points, a 15-basis-point decrease in the policy interest rate, while not leading to a significant response in exchange rates.

------------

`[2403.06139] Fine-grainedly Synthesize Streaming Data Based On Large Language Models With Graph Structure Understanding For Data Sparsity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06139>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 08:59:04 GMT
    Xin Zhang, Linhai Zhang, Deyu Zhou, Guoqiang Xu

Due to the sparsity of user data, sentiment analysis on user reviews in e-commerce platforms often suffers from poor performance, especially when faced with extremely sparse user data or long-tail labels. Recently, the emergence of LLMs has introduced new solutions to such problems by leveraging graph structures to generate supplementary user profiles. However, previous approaches have not fully utilized the graph understanding capabilities of LLMs and have struggled to adapt to complex streaming data environments. In this work, we propose a fine-grained streaming data synthesis framework that categorizes sparse users into three categories: Mid-tail, Long-tail, and Extreme. Specifically, we design LLMs to comprehensively understand three key graph elements in streaming data, including Local-global Graph Understanding, Second-Order Relationship Extraction, and Product Attribute Understanding, which enables the generation of high-quality synthetic data to effectively address sparsity across different categories. Experimental results on three real datasets demonstrate significant performance improvements, with synthesized data contributing to MSE reductions of 45.85%, 3.16%, and 62.21%, respectively.

------------

`[2403.06149] Can Large Language Models Automatically Score Proficiency of Written Essays? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06149>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 09:39:00 GMT
    Watheq Mansour, Salam Albatarni, Sohaila Eltanbouly, Tamer Elsayed

Although several methods were proposed to address the problem of automated essay scoring (AES) in the last 50 years, there is still much to desire in terms of effectiveness. Large Language Models (LLMs) are transformer-based models that demonstrate extraordinary capabilities on various tasks. In this paper, we test the ability of LLMs, given their powerful linguistic knowledge, to analyze and effectively score written essays. We experimented with two popular LLMs, namely ChatGPT and Llama. We aim to check if these models can do this task and, if so, how their performance is positioned among the state-of-the-art (SOTA) models across two levels, holistically and per individual writing trait. We utilized prompt-engineering tactics in designing four different prompts to bring their maximum potential to this task. Our experiments conducted on the ASAP dataset revealed several interesting observations. First, choosing the right prompt depends highly on the model and nature of the task. Second, the two LLMs exhibited comparable average performance in AES, with a slight advantage for ChatGPT. Finally, despite the performance gap between the two LLMs and SOTA models in terms of predictions, they provide feedback to enhance the quality of the essays, which can potentially help both teachers and students.

------------

`[2403.06201] Are You Being Tracked? Discover the Power of Zero-Shot Trajectory Tracing with LLMs! <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06201>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 12:50:35 GMT
    Huanqi Yang, Sijie Ji, Rucheng Wu, Weitao Xu

There is a burgeoning discussion around the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in acting as fundamental components that can be seamlessly incorporated into Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) to interpret complex trajectories. This study introduces LLMTrack, a model that illustrates how LLMs can be leveraged for Zero-Shot Trajectory Recognition by employing a novel single-prompt technique that combines role-play and think step-by-step methodologies with unprocessed Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) data. We evaluate the model using real-world datasets designed to challenge it with distinct trajectories characterized by indoor and outdoor scenarios. In both test scenarios, LLMTrack not only meets but exceeds the performance benchmarks set by traditional machine learning approaches and even contemporary state-of-the-art deep learning models, all without the requirement of training on specialized datasets. The results of our research suggest that, with strategically designed prompts, LLMs can tap into their extensive knowledge base and are well-equipped to analyze raw sensor data with remarkable effectiveness.

------------

`[2403.06259] Editing Conceptual Knowledge for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06259>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 16:57:10 GMT
    Xiaohan Wang, Shengyu Mao, Ningyu Zhang, Shumin Deng, Yunzhi Yao, Yue Shen, Lei Liang, Jinjie Gu, Huajun Chen

Recently, there has been a growing interest in knowledge editing for Large Language Models (LLMs). Current approaches and evaluations merely explore the instance-level editing, while whether LLMs possess the capability to modify concepts remains unclear. This paper pioneers the investigation of editing conceptual knowledge for LLMs, by constructing a novel benchmark dataset ConceptEdit and establishing a suite of new metrics for evaluation. The experimental results reveal that, although existing editing methods can efficiently modify concept-level definition to some extent, they also have the potential to distort the related instantial knowledge in LLMs, leading to poor performance. We anticipate this can inspire further progress in better understanding LLMs. Our project homepage is available at https://zjunlp.github.io/project/ConceptEdit.

------------

`[2403.06301] LIEDER: Linguistically-Informed Evaluation for Discourse Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06301>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 20:20:16 GMT
    Xiaomeng Zhu and Robert Frank

Discourse Entity (DE) recognition is the task of identifying novel and known entities introduced within a text. While previous work has found that large language models have basic, if imperfect, DE recognition abilities (Schuster and Linzen, 2022), it remains largely unassessed which of the fundamental semantic properties that govern the introduction and subsequent reference to DEs they have knowledge of. We propose the Linguistically-Informed Evaluation for Discourse Entity Recognition (LIEDER) dataset that allows for a detailed examination of language models' knowledge of four crucial semantic properties: existence, uniqueness, plurality, and novelty. We find evidence that state-of-the-art large language models exhibit sensitivity to all of these properties except novelty, which demonstrates that they have yet to reach human-level language understanding abilities.

------------

`[2403.06350] IndicLLMSuite: A Blueprint for Creating Pre-training and Fine-Tuning Datasets for Indian Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06350>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 00:46:56 GMT
    Mohammed Safi Ur Rahman Khan, Priyam Mehta, Ananth Sankar, Umashankar Kumaravelan, Sumanth Doddapaneni, Suriyaprasaad G, Varun Balan G, Sparsh Jain, Anoop Kunchukuttan, Pratyush Kumar, Raj Dabre, Mitesh M. Khapra

Despite the considerable advancements in English LLMs, the progress in building comparable models for other languages has been hindered due to the scarcity of tailored resources. Our work aims to bridge this divide by introducing an expansive suite of resources specifically designed for the development of Indic LLMs, covering 22 languages, containing a total of 251B tokens and 74.8M instruction-response pairs. Recognizing the importance of both data quality and quantity, our approach combines highly curated manually verified data, unverified yet valuable data, and synthetic data. We build a clean, open-source pipeline for curating pre-training data from diverse sources, including websites, PDFs, and videos, incorporating best practices for crawling, cleaning, flagging, and deduplication. For instruction-fine tuning, we amalgamate existing Indic datasets, translate/transliterate English datasets into Indian languages, and utilize LLaMa2 and Mixtral models to create conversations grounded in articles from Indian Wikipedia and Wikihow.
Additionally, we address toxicity alignment by generating toxic prompts for multiple scenarios and then generate non-toxic responses by feeding these toxic prompts to an aligned LLaMa2 model. We hope that the datasets, tools, and resources released as a part of this work will not only propel the research and development of Indic LLMs but also establish an open-source blueprint for extending such efforts to other languages. The data and other artifacts created as part of this work are released with permissive licenses.

------------

`[2403.06354] Amharic LLaMA and LLaVA: Multimodal LLMs for Low Resource Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06354>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 01:04:36 GMT
    Michael Andersland

Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 and LLaMA have shown incredible proficiency at natural language processing tasks and have even begun to excel at tasks across other modalities such as vision and audio. Despite their success, LLMs often struggle to perform well on low-resource languages because there is so little training data available. This shortcoming is especially prevalent with open source models. In this work, we explore training LLaMA-2 to speak Amharic, a language which is spoken by over 50 million people world wide, but has orders of magnitude less data available than languages like English. We employ methods previously used for training LLMs on other languages with data scarcity, and use open source translation models to perform data augmentation and grow our dataset from millions of tokens to billions. We further enhance the capabilities of our model by connecting an image encoder and training on a translated visual instruction tuning dataset in the same manner as LLaVA, resulting in a multimodal Amharic LLM that can understand images along with text. We introduce an Amharic version of a popular benchmarking dataset to evaluate our work. Our models and dataset are open sourced and available on GitHub.

------------

`[2403.06412] CLIcK: A Benchmark Dataset of Cultural and Linguistic Intelligence in Korean <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06412>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 03:54:33 GMT
    Eunsu Kim, Juyoung Suk, Philhoon Oh, Haneul Yoo, James Thorne, Alice Oh

Despite the rapid development of large language models (LLMs) for the Korean language, there remains an obvious lack of benchmark datasets that test the requisite Korean cultural and linguistic knowledge. Because many existing Korean benchmark datasets are derived from the English counterparts through translation, they often overlook the different cultural contexts. For the few benchmark datasets that are sourced from Korean data capturing cultural knowledge, only narrow tasks such as bias and hate speech detection are offered. To address this gap, we introduce a benchmark of Cultural and Linguistic Intelligence in Korean (CLIcK), a dataset comprising 1,995 QA pairs.
CLIcK sources its data from official Korean exams and textbooks, partitioning the questions into eleven categories under the two main categories of language and culture. For each instance in CLIcK, we provide fine-grained annotation of which cultural and linguistic knowledge is required to answer the question correctly. Using CLIcK, we test 13 language models to assess their performance.
Our evaluation uncovers insights into their performances across the categories, as well as the diverse factors affecting their comprehension. CLIcK offers the first large-scale comprehensive Korean-centric analysis of LLMs' proficiency in Korean culture and language.

------------

`[2403.06414] Evolving Knowledge Distillation with Large Language Models and Active Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06414>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 03:55:24 GMT
    Chengyuan Liu, Yangyang Kang, Fubang Zhao, Kun Kuang, Zhuoren Jiang, Changlong Sun, Fei Wu

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across various NLP tasks. However, their computational costs are prohibitively high.
To address this issue, previous research has attempted to distill the knowledge of LLMs into smaller models by generating annotated data. Nonetheless, these works have mainly focused on the direct use of LLMs for text generation and labeling, without fully exploring their potential to comprehend the target task and acquire valuable knowledge. In this paper, we propose EvoKD: Evolving Knowledge Distillation, which leverages the concept of active learning to interactively enhance the process of data generation using large language models, simultaneously improving the task capabilities of small domain model (student model). Different from previous work, we actively analyze the student model's weaknesses, and then synthesize labeled samples based on the analysis.
In addition, we provide iterative feedback to the LLMs regarding the student model's performance to continuously construct diversified and challenging samples. Experiments and analysis on different NLP tasks, namely, text classification and named entity recognition show the effectiveness of EvoKD.

------------

`[2403.06448] Unsupervised Real-Time Hallucination Detection based on the Internal States of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06448>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 05:51:03 GMT
    Weihang Su, Changyue Wang, Qingyao Ai, Yiran HU, Zhijing Wu, Yujia Zhou, Yiqun Liu

Hallucinations in large language models (LLMs) refer to the phenomenon of LLMs producing responses that are coherent yet factually inaccurate. This issue undermines the effectiveness of LLMs in practical applications, necessitating research into detecting and mitigating hallucinations of LLMs. Previous studies have mainly concentrated on post-processing techniques for hallucination detection, which tend to be computationally intensive and limited in effectiveness due to their separation from the LLM's inference process. To overcome these limitations, we introduce MIND, an unsupervised training framework that leverages the internal states of LLMs for real-time hallucination detection without requiring manual annotations. Additionally, we present HELM, a new benchmark for evaluating hallucination detection across multiple LLMs, featuring diverse LLM outputs and the internal states of LLMs during their inference process. Our experiments demonstrate that MIND outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in hallucination detection.

------------

`[2403.06537] On the Consideration of AI Openness: Can Good Intent Be Abused? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06537>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 09:24:06 GMT
    Yeeun Kim, Eunkyung Choi, Hyunjun Kim, Hongseok Oh, Hyunseo Shin, Wonseok Hwang

Openness is critical for the advancement of science. In particular, recent rapid progress in AI has been made possible only by various open-source models, datasets, and libraries. However, this openness also means that technologies can be freely used for socially harmful purposes. Can open-source models or datasets be used for malicious purposes? If so, how easy is it to adapt technology for such goals? Here, we conduct a case study in the legal domain, a realm where individual decisions can have profound social consequences. To this end, we build EVE, a dataset consisting of 200 examples of questions and corresponding answers about criminal activities based on 200 Korean precedents.
We found that a widely accepted open-source LLM, which initially refuses to answer unethical questions, can be easily tuned with EVE to provide unethical and informative answers about criminal activities. This implies that although open-source technologies contribute to scientific progress, some care must be taken to mitigate possible malicious use cases. Warning: This paper contains contents that some may find unethical.

------------

`[2403.06574] AC-EVAL: Evaluating Ancient Chinese Language Understanding in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06574>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:24:37 GMT
    Yuting Wei, Yuanxing Xu, Xinru Wei, Simin Yang, Yangfu Zhu, Yuqing Li, Di Liu, Bin Wu

Given the importance of ancient Chinese in capturing the essence of rich historical and cultural heritage, the rapid advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) necessitate benchmarks that can effectively evaluate their understanding of ancient contexts. To meet this need, we present AC-EVAL, an innovative benchmark designed to assess the advanced knowledge and reasoning capabilities of LLMs within the context of ancient Chinese. AC-EVAL is structured across three levels of difficulty reflecting different facets of language comprehension: general historical knowledge, short text understanding, and long text comprehension. The benchmark comprises 13 tasks, spanning historical facts, geography, social customs, art, philosophy, classical poetry and prose, providing a comprehensive assessment framework. Our extensive evaluation of top-performing LLMs, tailored for both English and Chinese, reveals a substantial potential for enhancing ancient text comprehension. By highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs, AC-EVAL aims to promote their development and application forward in the realms of ancient Chinese language education and scholarly research. The AC-EVAL data and evaluation code are available at https://github.com/yuting-wei/AC-EVAL.

------------

`[2403.06591] Academically intelligent LLMs are not necessarily socially intelligent <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06591>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:35:53 GMT
    Ruoxi Xu, Hongyu Lin, Xianpei Han, Le Sun, Yingfei Sun

The academic intelligence of large language models (LLMs) has made remarkable progress in recent times, but their social intelligence performance remains unclear. Inspired by established human social intelligence frameworks, particularly Daniel Goleman's social intelligence theory, we have developed a standardized social intelligence test based on real-world social scenarios to comprehensively assess the social intelligence of LLMs, termed as the Situational Evaluation of Social Intelligence (SESI). We conducted an extensive evaluation with 13 recent popular and state-of-art LLM agents on SESI. The results indicate the social intelligence of LLMs still has significant room for improvement, with superficially friendliness as a primary reason for errors.
Moreover, there exists a relatively low correlation between the social intelligence and academic intelligence exhibited by LLMs, suggesting that social intelligence is distinct from academic intelligence for LLMs.
Additionally, while it is observed that LLMs can't ``understand'' what social intelligence is, their social intelligence, similar to that of humans, is influenced by social factors.

------------

`[2403.06609] Guiding Clinical Reasoning with Large Language Models via Knowledge Seeds <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06609>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:53:20 GMT
    Jiageng WU, Xian Wu, Jie Yang

Clinical reasoning refers to the cognitive process that physicians employ in evaluating and managing patients. This process typically involves suggesting necessary examinations, diagnosing patients' diseases, and deciding on appropriate therapies, etc. Accurate clinical reasoning requires extensive medical knowledge and rich clinical experience, setting a high bar for physicians. This is particularly challenging in developing countries due to the overwhelming number of patients and limited physician resources, contributing significantly to global health inequity and necessitating automated clinical reasoning approaches. Recently, the emergence of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 have demonstrated their potential in clinical reasoning. However, these LLMs are prone to hallucination problems, and the reasoning process of LLMs may not align with the clinical decision path of physicians. In this study, we introduce a novel framework, In-Context Padding (ICP), designed to enhance LLMs with medical knowledge. Specifically, we infer critical clinical reasoning elements (referred to as knowledge seeds) and use these as anchors to guide the generation process of LLMs. Experiments on two clinical question datasets demonstrate that ICP significantly improves the clinical reasoning ability of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.06611] MedKP: Medical Dialogue with Knowledge Enhancement and Clinical Pathway Encoding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06611>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:57:45 GMT
    Jiageng Wu, Xian Wu, Yefeng Zheng, Jie Yang

With appropriate data selection and training techniques, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional success in various medical examinations and multiple-choice questions. However, the application of LLMs in medical dialogue generation-a task more closely aligned with actual medical practice-has been less explored. This gap is attributed to the insufficient medical knowledge of LLMs, which leads to inaccuracies and hallucinated information in the generated medical responses. In this work, we introduce the Medical dialogue with Knowledge enhancement and clinical Pathway encoding (MedKP) framework, which integrates an external knowledge enhancement module through a medical knowledge graph and an internal clinical pathway encoding via medical entities and physician actions. Evaluated with comprehensive metrics, our experiments on two large-scale, real-world online medical consultation datasets (MedDG and KaMed) demonstrate that MedKP surpasses multiple baselines and mitigates the incidence of hallucinations, achieving a new state-of-the-art. Extensive ablation studies further reveal the effectiveness of each component of MedKP. This enhancement advances the development of reliable, automated medical consultation responses using LLMs, thereby broadening the potential accessibility of precise and real-time medical assistance.

------------

`[2403.06745] ACT-MNMT Auto-Constriction Turning for Multilingual Neural Machine Translation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06745>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 14:10:57 GMT
    Shaojie Dai, Xin Liu, Ping Luo and Yue Yu

Large language model (LLM) has achieved promising performance in multilingual machine translation tasks through zero/few-shot prompts or prompt-tuning.
However, due to the mixture of multilingual data during the pre-training of LLM, the LLM-based translation models face the off-target issue in both prompt-based methods, including a series of phenomena, namely instruction misunderstanding, translation with wrong language and over-generation. For this issue, this paper introduces an \textbf{\underline{A}}uto-\textbf{\underline{C}}onstriction \textbf{\underline{T}}urning mechanism for \textbf{\underline{M}}ultilingual \textbf{\underline{N}}eural \textbf{\underline{M}}achine \textbf{\underline{T}}ranslation (\model), which is a novel supervised fine-tuning mechanism and orthogonal to the traditional prompt-based methods.
In this method, \model automatically constructs a constrained template in the target side by adding trigger tokens ahead of the ground truth. Furthermore, trigger tokens can be arranged and combined freely to represent different task semantics, and they can be iteratively updated to maximize the label likelihood. Experiments are performed on WMT test sets with multiple metrics, and the experimental results demonstrate that \model achieves substantially improved performance across multiple translation directions and reduce the off-target phenomena in the translation.

------------

`[2403.06754] ALaRM: Align Language Models via Hierarchical Rewards Modeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06754>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 14:28:40 GMT
    Yuhang Lai, Siyuan Wang, Shujun Liu, Xuanjing Huang, Zhongyu Wei

We introduce ALaRM, the first framework modeling hierarchical rewards in reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), which is designed to enhance the alignment of large language models (LLMs) with human preferences. The framework addresses the limitations of current alignment approaches, which often struggle with the inconsistency and sparsity of human supervision signals, by integrating holistic rewards with aspect-specific rewards. This integration enables more precise and consistent guidance of language models towards desired outcomes, particularly in complex and open text generation tasks. By employing a methodology that filters and combines multiple rewards based on their consistency, the framework provides a reliable mechanism for improving model alignment. We validate our approach through applications in long-form question answering and machine translation tasks, employing gpt-3.5-turbo for pairwise comparisons, and demonstrate improvements over existing baselines. Our work underscores the effectiveness of hierarchical rewards modeling in refining LLM training processes for better human preference alignment. We release our code at https://ALaRM-fdu.github.io.

------------

`[2403.06765] ConspEmoLLM: Conspiracy Theory Detection Using an Emotion-Based Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06765>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 14:35:45 GMT
    Zhiwei Liu, Boyang Liu, Paul Thompson, Kailai Yang, Raghav Jain, Sophia Ananiadou

The internet has brought both benefits and harms to society. A prime example of the latter is misinformation, including conspiracy theories, which flood the web. Recent advances in natural language processing, particularly the emergence of large language models (LLMs), have improved the prospects of accurate misinformation detection. However, most LLM-based approaches to conspiracy theory detection focus only on binary classification and fail to account for the important relationship between misinformation and affective features (i.e., sentiment and emotions). Driven by a comprehensive analysis of conspiracy text that reveals its distinctive affective features, we propose ConspEmoLLM, the first open-source LLM that integrates affective information and is able to perform diverse tasks relating to conspiracy theories. These tasks include not only conspiracy theory detection, but also classification of theory type and detection of related discussion (e.g., opinions towards theories). ConspEmoLLM is fine-tuned based on an emotion-oriented LLM using our novel ConDID dataset, which includes five tasks to support LLM instruction tuning and evaluation. We demonstrate that when applied to these tasks, ConspEmoLLM largely outperforms several open-source general domain LLMs and ChatGPT, as well as an LLM that has been fine-tuned using ConDID, but which does not use affective features. This project will be released on https://github.com/lzw108/ConspEmoLLM/.

------------

`[2403.06832] The Power of Noise: Toward a Unified Multi-modal Knowledge Graph Representation Framework <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06832>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 15:48:43 GMT
    Zhuo Chen, Yin Fang, Yichi Zhang, Lingbing Guo, Jiaoyan Chen, Huajun Chen, Wen Zhang

The advancement of Multi-modal Pre-training highlights the necessity for a robust Multi-Modal Knowledge Graph (MMKG) representation learning framework.
This framework is crucial for integrating structured knowledge into multi-modal Large Language Models (LLMs) at scale, aiming to alleviate issues like knowledge misconceptions and multi-modal hallucinations. In this work, to evaluate models' ability to accurately embed entities within MMKGs, we focus on two widely researched tasks: Multi-modal Knowledge Graph Completion (MKGC) and Multi-modal Entity Alignment (MMEA). Building on this foundation, we propose a novel SNAG method that utilizes a Transformer-based architecture equipped with modality-level noise masking for the robust integration of multi-modal entity features in KGs. By incorporating specific training objectives for both MKGC and MMEA, our approach achieves SOTA performance across a total of ten datasets (three for MKGC and seven for MEMA), demonstrating its robustness and versatility. Besides, SNAG can not only function as a standalone model but also enhance other existing methods, providing stable performance improvements. Our code and data are available at: https://github.com/zjukg/SNAG.

------------

`[2403.06840] RA-ISF: Learning to Answer and Understand from Retrieval Augmentation via Iterative Self-Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06840>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:01:05 GMT
    Yanming Liu, Xinyue Peng, Xuhong Zhang, Weihao Liu, Jianwei Yin, Jiannan Cao, Tianyu Du

Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate exceptional performance in numerous tasks but still heavily rely on knowledge stored in their parameters. Moreover, updating this knowledge incurs high training costs. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) methods address this issue by integrating external knowledge.
The model can answer questions it couldn't previously by retrieving knowledge relevant to the query. This approach improves performance in certain scenarios for specific tasks. However, if irrelevant texts are retrieved, it may impair model performance. In this paper, we propose Retrieval Augmented Iterative Self-Feedback (RA-ISF), a framework that iteratively decomposes tasks and processes them in three submodules to enhance the model's problem-solving capabilities. Experiments show that our method outperforms existing benchmarks, performing well on models like GPT3.5, Llama2, significantly enhancing factual reasoning capabilities and reducing hallucinations.

------------

`[2403.06857] Development of a Reliable and Accessible Caregiving Language Model (CaLM) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06857>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:12:34 GMT
    Bambang Parmanto, Bayu Aryoyudanta, Wilbert Soekinto, I Made Agus Setiawan, Yuhan Wang, Haomin Hu, Andi Saptono, Yong K. Choi

Unlike professional caregivers, family caregivers often assume this role without formal preparation or training. Because of this, there is an urgent need to enhance the capacity of family caregivers to provide quality care.
Large language models can potentially be used as a foundation technology for supporting caregivers as educational tools or as adjunct to care. This study aimed to develop a reliable Caregiving Language Model (CaLM) by using FMs and a caregiving knowledge base, develop an accessible CaLM using a small FM that requires fewer computing resources, and evaluate the performance of the model compared to a large FM. We developed CaLM using the Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) framework combined with FM fine-tuning for improving the quality of FM answers by grounding the model on a caregiving knowledge base. We used two small FMs as candidates for the FM of CaLM (LLaMA-2 and Falcon with 7B parameters) and larger FM GPT-3.5 as a benchmark. We developed the caregiving knowledge base by gathering various types of documents from the Internet. In this study, we focused on caregivers of individuals with Alzheimer's Disease Related Dementias. We evaluated the models' performance using the benchmark metrics commonly used in evaluating language models and their reliability to provide accurate references with the answers. The RAG framework improved the performance of all FMs used in this study across all measures. As expected, the large FM performed better than small FMs across all metrics. The most interesting result is that small fine-tuned FMs with RAG performed significantly better than GPT 3.5 across all metrics. The fine-tuned LLaMA-2 small FM performed better than GPT 3.5 (even with RAG) in returning references with the answers. The study shows that reliable and accessible CaLM can be developed by using small FMs with a knowledge base specific to the caregiving domain.

------------

`[2403.06872] Exploring Large Language Models and Hierarchical Frameworks for Classification of Large Unstructured Legal Documents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06872>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:24:08 GMT
    Nishchal Prasad, Mohand Boughanem, Taoufiq Dkaki

Legal judgment prediction suffers from the problem of long case documents exceeding tens of thousands of words, in general, and having a non-uniform structure. Predicting judgments from such documents becomes a challenging task, more so on documents with no structural annotation. We explore the classification of these large legal documents and their lack of structural information with a deep-learning-based hierarchical framework which we call MESc; "Multi-stage Encoder-based Supervised with-clustering"; for judgment prediction. Specifically, we divide a document into parts to extract their embeddings from the last four layers of a custom fine-tuned Large Language Model, and try to approximate their structure through unsupervised clustering.
Which we use in another set of transformer encoder layers to learn the inter-chunk representations. We analyze the adaptability of Large Language Models (LLMs) with multi-billion parameters (GPT-Neo, and GPT-J) with the hierarchical framework of MESc and compare them with their standalone performance on legal texts. We also study their intra-domain(legal) transfer learning capability and the impact of combining embeddings from their last layers in MESc. We test these methods and their effectiveness with extensive experiments and ablation studies on legal documents from India, the European Union, and the United States with the ILDC dataset and a subset of the LexGLUE dataset. Our approach achieves a minimum total performance gain of approximately 2 points over previous state-of-the-art methods.

------------

`[2403.06914] MEND: Meta dEmonstratioN Distillation for Efficient and Effective In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06914>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:03:04 GMT
    Yichuan Li, Xiyao Ma, Sixing Lu, Kyumin Lee, Xiaohu Liu, Chenlei Guo

Large Language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive in-context learning (ICL) capabilities, where a LLM makes predictions for a given test input together with a few input-output pairs (demonstrations). Nevertheless, the inclusion of demonstrations leads to a quadratic increase in the computational overhead of the self-attention mechanism. Existing solutions attempt to distill lengthy demonstrations into compact vectors. However, they often require task-specific retraining or compromise LLM's in-context learning performance.
To mitigate these challenges, we present Meta dEmonstratioN Distillation (MEND), where a language model learns to distill any lengthy demonstrations into vectors without retraining for a new downstream task. We exploit the knowledge distillation to enhance alignment between MEND and LLM, achieving both efficiency and effectiveness simultaneously. MEND is endowed with the meta-knowledge of distilling demonstrations through a two-stage training process, which includes meta-distillation pretraining and fine-tuning.
Comprehensive evaluations across seven diverse ICL task partitions using decoder-only (GPT-2) and encoder-decoder (T5) attest to MEND's prowess. It not only matches but often outperforms the Vanilla ICL as well as other state-of-the-art distillation models, while significantly reducing the computational demands. This innovation promises enhanced scalability and efficiency for the practical deployment of large language models

------------

`[2403.06932] ERA-CoT: Improving Chain-of-Thought through Entity Relationship Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06932>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:18:53 GMT
    Yanming Liu, Xinyue Peng, Tianyu Du, Jianwei Yin, Weihao Liu, Xuhong Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved commendable accomplishments in various natural language processing tasks. However, LLMs still encounter significant challenges when dealing with complex scenarios involving multiple entities. These challenges arise from the presence of implicit relationships that demand multi-step reasoning. In this paper, we propose a novel approach ERA-CoT, which aids LLMs in understanding context by capturing relationships between entities and supports the reasoning of diverse tasks through Chain-of-Thoughts (CoT). Experimental results show that ERA-CoT demonstrates the superior performance of our proposed method compared to current CoT prompting methods, achieving a significant improvement of an average of 5.1\% on GPT3.5 compared to previous SOTA baselines. Our analysis indicates that ERA-CoT increases the LLM's understanding of entity relationships, significantly improves the accuracy of question answering, and enhances the reasoning ability of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.06935] Naming, Describing, and Quantifying Visual Objects in Humans and LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06935>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:20:12 GMT
    Alberto Testoni, Juell Sprott, Sandro Pezzelle

While human speakers use a variety of different expressions when describing the same object in an image, giving rise to a distribution of plausible labels driven by pragmatic constraints, the extent to which current Vision \& Language Large Language Models (VLLMs) can mimic this crucial feature of language use is an open question. This applies to common, everyday objects, but it is particularly interesting for uncommon or novel objects for which a category label may be lacking or fuzzy. Furthermore, humans show clear production preferences for highly context-sensitive expressions, such as the quantifiers `few' or `most'. In our work, we evaluate VLLMs (FROMAGe, BLIP-2, LLaVA) on three categories (nouns, attributes, and quantifiers) where humans show great subjective variability concerning the distribution over plausible labels, using datasets and resources mostly under-explored in previous work. Our results reveal mixed evidence on the ability of VLLMs to capture human naming preferences, with all models failing in tasks that require high-level reasoning such as assigning quantifiers.

------------

`[2403.06965] Hybrid Human-LLM Corpus Construction and LLM Evaluation for Rare Linguistic Phenomena <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06965>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:47:47 GMT
    Leonie Weissweiler, Abdullatif K\"oksal, Hinrich Sch\"utze

Argument Structure Constructions (ASCs) are one of the most well-studied construction groups, providing a unique opportunity to demonstrate the usefulness of Construction Grammar (CxG). For example, the caused-motion construction (CMC, ``She sneezed the foam off her cappuccino'') demonstrates that constructions must carry meaning, otherwise the fact that ``sneeze'' in this context causes movement cannot be explained. We form the hypothesis that this remains challenging even for state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs), for which we devise a test based on substituting the verb with a prototypical motion verb. To be able to perform this test at statistically significant scale, in the absence of adequate CxG corpora, we develop a novel pipeline of NLP-assisted collection of linguistically annotated text. We show how dependency parsing and GPT-3.5 can be used to significantly reduce annotation cost and thus enable the annotation of rare phenomena at scale. We then evaluate GPT, Gemini, Llama2 and Mistral models for their understanding of the CMC using the newly collected corpus. We find that all models struggle with understanding the motion component that the CMC adds to a sentence.

------------

`[2403.06970] MRL Parsing Without Tears: The Case of Hebrew <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06970>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:54:33 GMT
    Shaltiel Shmidman, Avi Shmidman, Moshe Koppel, Reut Tsarfaty

Syntactic parsing remains a critical tool for relation extraction and information extraction, especially in resource-scarce languages where LLMs are lacking. Yet in morphologically rich languages (MRLs), where parsers need to identify multiple lexical units in each token, existing systems suffer in latency and setup complexity. Some use a pipeline to peel away the layers: first segmentation, then morphology tagging, and then syntax parsing; however, errors in earlier layers are then propagated forward. Others use a joint architecture to evaluate all permutations at once; while this improves accuracy, it is notoriously slow. In contrast, and taking Hebrew as a test case, we present a new "flipped pipeline": decisions are made directly on the whole-token units by expert classifiers, each one dedicated to one specific task. The classifiers are independent of one another, and only at the end do we synthesize their predictions. This blazingly fast approach sets a new SOTA in Hebrew POS tagging and dependency parsing, while also reaching near-SOTA performance on other Hebrew NLP tasks. Because our architecture does not rely on any language-specific resources, it can serve as a model to develop similar parsers for other MRLs.

------------

`[2403.05612] Unfamiliar Finetuning Examples Control How Language Models Hallucinate <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05612>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 18:28:13 GMT
    Katie Kang, Eric Wallace, Claire Tomlin, Aviral Kumar, Sergey Levine

Large language models (LLMs) have a tendency to generate plausible-sounding yet factually incorrect responses, especially when queried on unfamiliar concepts. In this work, we explore the underlying mechanisms that govern how finetuned LLMs hallucinate. Our investigation reveals an interesting pattern: as inputs become more unfamiliar, LLM outputs tend to default towards a ``hedged'' prediction, whose form is determined by how the unfamiliar examples in the finetuning data are supervised. Thus, by strategically modifying these examples' supervision, we can control LLM predictions for unfamiliar inputs (e.g., teach them to say ``I don't know''). Based on these principles, we develop an RL approach that more reliably mitigates hallucinations for long-form generation tasks, by tackling the challenges presented by reward model hallucinations. We validate our findings with a series of controlled experiments in multiple-choice QA on MMLU, as well as long-form biography and book/movie plot generation tasks.

------------

`[2403.05767] Extending Activation Steering to Broad Skills and Multiple Behaviours <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05767>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 02:30:04 GMT
    Teun van der Weij, Massimo Poesio, Nandi Schoots

Current large language models have dangerous capabilities, which are likely to become more problematic in the future. Activation steering techniques can be used to reduce risks from these capabilities. In this paper, we investigate the efficacy of activation steering for broad skills and multiple behaviours.
First, by comparing the effects of reducing performance on general coding ability and Python-specific ability, we find that steering broader skills is competitive to steering narrower skills. Second, we steer models to become more or less myopic and wealth-seeking, among other behaviours. In our experiments, combining steering vectors for multiple different behaviours into one steering vector is largely unsuccessful. On the other hand, injecting individual steering vectors at different places in a model simultaneously is promising.

------------

`[2403.05798] $\textbf{S}^2$IP-LLM: Semantic Space Informed Prompt Learning with LLM for Time Series Forecasting <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05798>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 05:20:48 GMT
    Zijie Pan, Yushan Jiang, Sahil Garg, Anderson Schneider, Yuriy Nevmyvaka and Dongjin Song

Recently, there has been a growing interest in leveraging pre-trained large language models (LLMs) for various time series applications. However, the semantic space of LLMs, established through the pre-training, is still underexplored and may help yield more distinctive and informative representations to facilitate time series forecasting. To this end, we propose Semantic Space Informed Prompt learning with LLM ($S^2$IP-LLM) to align the pre-trained semantic space with time series embeddings space and perform time series forecasting based on learned prompts from the joint space. We first design a tokenization module tailored for cross-modality alignment, which explicitly concatenates patches of decomposed time series components to create embeddings that effectively encode the temporal dynamics. Next, we leverage the pre-trained word token embeddings to derive semantic anchors and align selected anchors with time series embeddings by maximizing the cosine similarity in the joint space. This way, $S^2$IP-LLM can retrieve relevant semantic anchors as prompts to provide strong indicators (context) for time series that exhibit different temporal dynamics. With thorough empirical studies on multiple benchmark datasets, we demonstrate that the proposed $S^2$IP-LLM can achieve superior forecasting performance over state-of-the-art baselines. Furthermore, our ablation studies and visualizations verify the necessity of prompt learning informed by semantic space.

------------

`[2403.05821] Optimizing LLM Queries in Relational Workloads <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05821>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 07:01:44 GMT
    Shu Liu, Asim Biswal, Audrey Cheng, Xiangxi Mo, Shiyi Cao, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica, Matei Zaharia

Analytical database providers (e.g., Redshift, Databricks, BigQuery) have rapidly added support for invoking Large Language Models (LLMs) through native user-defined functions (UDFs) to help users perform natural language tasks, such as classification, entity extraction, and translation, inside analytical workloads. For instance, an analyst might want to extract customer sentiments on millions of product reviews. However, LLM inference is highly expensive in both computational and economic terms: for example, an NVIDIA L4 GPU running Llama2-7B can only process 6 KB of text per second. In this paper, we explore how to optimize LLM inference for analytical workloads that invoke LLMs within relational queries. We show that relational queries present novel opportunities for accelerating LLM inference, including reordering rows to maximize key-value (KV) cache reuse within the LLM inference engine, reordering columns within a row to further increase cache reuse, and deduplicating redundant inference requests. We implement these optimizations in Apache Spark, with vLLM as the model serving backend and achieve up to 4.4x improvement in end-to-end latency on a benchmark of diverse LLM-based queries on real datasets. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to explicitly address the problem of optimizing LLM invocations within SQL queries.

------------

`[2403.06009] Detectors for Safe and Reliable LLMs: Implementations, Uses, and Limitations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06009>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 21:07:16 GMT
    Swapnaja Achintalwar, Adriana Alvarado Garcia, Ateret Anaby-Tavor, Ioana Baldini, Sara E. Berger, Bishwaranjan Bhattacharjee, Djallel Bouneffouf, Subhajit Chaudhury, Pin-Yu Chen, Lamogha Chiazor, Elizabeth M. Daly, Rog\'erio Abreu de Paula, Pierre Dognin, Eitan Farchi, Soumya Ghosh, Michael Hind, Raya Horesh, George Kour, Ja Young Lee, Erik Miehling, Keerthiram Murugesan, Manish Nagireddy, Inkit Padhi, David Piorkowski, Ambrish Rawat, Orna Raz, Prasanna Sattigeri, Hendrik Strobelt, Sarathkrishna Swaminathan, Christoph Tillmann, Aashka Trivedi, Kush R. Varshney, Dennis Wei, Shalisha Witherspooon, Marcel Zalmanovici

Large language models (LLMs) are susceptible to a variety of risks, from non-faithful output to biased and toxic generations. Due to several limiting factors surrounding LLMs (training cost, API access, data availability, etc.), it may not always be feasible to impose direct safety constraints on a deployed model. Therefore, an efficient and reliable alternative is required. To this end, we present our ongoing efforts to create and deploy a library of detectors: compact and easy-to-build classification models that provide labels for various harms. In addition to the detectors themselves, we discuss a wide range of uses for these detector models - from acting as guardrails to enabling effective AI governance. We also deep dive into inherent challenges in their development and discuss future work aimed at making the detectors more reliable and broadening their scope.

------------

`[2403.06408] What Makes Quantization for Large Language Models Hard? An Empirical Study from the Lens of Perturbation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06408>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 03:42:51 GMT
    Zhuocheng Gong, Jiahao Liu, Jingang Wang, Xunliang Cai, Dongyan Zhao, Rui Yan

Quantization has emerged as a promising technique for improving the memory and computational efficiency of large language models (LLMs). Though the trade-off between performance and efficiency is well-known, there is still much to be learned about the relationship between quantization and LLM performance.
To shed light on this relationship, we propose a new perspective on quantization, viewing it as perturbations added to the weights and activations of LLMs. We call this approach "the lens of perturbation". Using this lens, we conduct experiments with various artificial perturbations to explore their impact on LLM performance. Our findings reveal several connections between the properties of perturbations and LLM performance, providing insights into the failure cases of uniform quantization and suggesting potential solutions to improve the robustness of LLM quantization. To demonstrate the significance of our findings, we implement a simple non-uniform quantization approach based on our insights. Our experiments show that this approach achieves minimal performance degradation on both 4-bit weight quantization and 8-bit quantization for weights and activations. These results validate the correctness of our approach and highlight its potential to improve the efficiency of LLMs without sacrificing performance.

------------

`[2403.06563] Unraveling the Mystery of Scaling Laws: Part I <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06563>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:05:29 GMT
    Hui Su, Zhi Tian, Xiaoyu Shen, Xunliang Cai

Scaling law principles indicate a power-law correlation between loss and variables such as model size, dataset size, and computational resources utilized during training. These principles play a vital role in optimizing various aspects of model pre-training, ultimately contributing to the success of large language models such as GPT-4, Llama and Gemini. However, the original scaling law paper by OpenAI did not disclose the complete details necessary to derive the precise scaling law formulas, and their conclusions are only based on models containing up to 1.5 billion parameters. Though some subsequent works attempt to unveil these details and scale to larger models, they often neglect the training dependency of important factors such as the learning rate, context length and batch size, leading to their failure to establish a reliable formula for predicting the test loss trajectory. In this technical report, we confirm that the scaling law formulations proposed in the original OpenAI paper remain valid when scaling the model size up to 33 billion, but the constant coefficients in these formulas vary significantly with the experiment setup. We meticulously identify influential factors and provide transparent, step-by-step instructions to estimate all constant terms in scaling-law formulas by training on models with only 1M~60M parameters. Using these estimated formulas, we showcase the capability to accurately predict various attributes for models with up to 33B parameters before their training, including (1) the minimum possible test loss; (2) the minimum required training steps and processed tokens to achieve a specific loss; (3) the critical batch size with an optimal time/computation trade-off at any loss value; and (4) the complete test loss trajectory with arbitrary batch size.

------------

`[2403.06586] ContextGPT: Infusing LLMs Knowledge into Neuro-Symbolic Activity Recognition Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06586>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 10:32:23 GMT
    Luca Arrotta, Claudio Bettini, Gabriele Civitarese, Michele Fiori

Context-aware Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is a hot research area in mobile computing, and the most effective solutions in the literature are based on supervised deep learning models. However, the actual deployment of these systems is limited by the scarcity of labeled data that is required for training. Neuro-Symbolic AI (NeSy) provides an interesting research direction to mitigate this issue, by infusing common-sense knowledge about human activities and the contexts in which they can be performed into HAR deep learning classifiers. Existing NeSy methods for context-aware HAR rely on knowledge encoded in logic-based models (e.g., ontologies) whose design, implementation, and maintenance to capture new activities and contexts require significant human engineering efforts, technical knowledge, and domain expertise. Recent works show that pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) effectively encode common-sense knowledge about human activities. In this work, we propose ContextGPT: a novel prompt engineering approach to retrieve from LLMs common-sense knowledge about the relationship between human activities and the context in which they are performed. Unlike ontologies, ContextGPT requires limited human effort and expertise. An extensive evaluation carried out on two public datasets shows how a NeSy model obtained by infusing common-sense knowledge from ContextGPT is effective in data scarcity scenarios, leading to similar (and sometimes better) recognition rates than logic-based approaches with a fraction of the effort.

------------

`[2403.06644] Elephants Never Forget: Testing Language Models for Memorization of Tabular Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06644>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:07:13 GMT
    Sebastian Bordt, Harsha Nori, Rich Caruana

While many have shown how Large Language Models (LLMs) can be applied to a diverse set of tasks, the critical issues of data contamination and memorization are often glossed over. In this work, we address this concern for tabular data. Starting with simple qualitative tests for whether an LLM knows the names and values of features, we introduce a variety of different techniques to assess the degrees of contamination, including statistical tests for conditional distribution modeling and four tests that identify memorization. Our investigation reveals that LLMs are pre-trained on many popular tabular datasets. This exposure can lead to invalid performance evaluation on downstream tasks because the LLMs have, in effect, been fit to the test set. Interestingly, we also identify a regime where the language model reproduces important statistics of the data, but fails to reproduce the dataset verbatim. On these datasets, although seen during training, good performance on downstream tasks might not be due to overfitting. Our findings underscore the need for ensuring data integrity in machine learning tasks with LLMs. To facilitate future research, we release an open-source tool that can perform various tests for memorization \url{https://github.com/interpretml/LLM-Tabular-Memorization-Checker}.

------------

`[2403.06833] Can LLMs Separate Instructions From Data? And What Do We Even Mean By That? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06833>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 15:48:56 GMT
    Egor Zverev, Sahar Abdelnabi, Mario Fritz, Christoph H. Lampert

Instruction-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved breakthrough results, opening countless new possibilities for many practical applications.
However, LLMs lack elementary safety features that are established norms in other areas of computer science, such as the separation between instructions and data, causing them to malfunction or rendering them vulnerable to manipulation and interference by third parties e.g., via indirect prompt/command injection. Even worse, so far, there is not even an established definition of what precisely such a separation would mean and how its violation could be tested. In this work, we aim to close this gap. We introduce a formal measure to quantify the phenomenon of instruction-data separation as well as an empirical variant of the measure that can be computed from a model`s black-box outputs. We also introduce a new dataset, SEP (Should it be Executed or Processed?), which allows estimating the measure, and we report results on several state-of-the-art open-source and closed LLMs. Finally, we quantitatively demonstrate that all evaluated LLMs fail to achieve a high amount of separation, according to our measure. The source code and SEP dataset are openly accessible at https://github.com/egozverev/Shold-It-Be-Executed-Or-Processed.

------------

`[2403.05548] Monitoring the evolution of antisemitic discourse on extremist social media using BERT <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05548>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 20:34:49 GMT
    Raza Ul Mustafa and Nathalie Japkowicz

Racism and intolerance on social media contribute to a toxic online environment which may spill offline to foster hatred, and eventually lead to physical violence. That is the case with online antisemitism, the specific category of hatred considered in this study. Tracking antisemitic themes and their associated terminology over time in online discussions could help monitor the sentiments of their participants and their evolution, and possibly offer avenues for intervention that may prevent the escalation of hatred. Due to the large volume and constant evolution of online traffic, monitoring conversations manually is impractical. Instead, we propose an automated method that extracts antisemitic themes and terminology from extremist social media over time and captures their evolution. Since supervised learning would be too limited for such a task, we created an unsupervised online machine learning approach that uses large language models to assess the contextual similarity of posts. The method clusters similar posts together, dividing, and creating additional clusters over time when sub-themes emerge from existing ones or new themes appear. The antisemitic terminology used within each theme is extracted from the posts in each cluster. Our experiments show that our methodology outperforms existing baselines and demonstrates the kind of themes and sub-themes it discovers within antisemitic discourse along with their associated terminology. We believe that our approach will be useful for monitoring the evolution of all kinds of hatred beyond antisemitism on social platforms.

------------

`[2403.05572] Is ChatGPT More Empathetic than Humans? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05572>`__

::

    Thu, 22 Feb 2024 09:52:45 GMT
    Anuradha Welivita and Pearl Pu

This paper investigates the empathetic responding capabilities of ChatGPT, particularly its latest iteration, GPT-4, in comparison to human-generated responses to a wide range of emotional scenarios, both positive and negative.
We employ a rigorous evaluation methodology, involving a between-groups study with 600 participants, to evaluate the level of empathy in responses generated by humans and ChatGPT. ChatGPT is prompted in two distinct ways: a standard approach and one explicitly detailing empathy's cognitive, affective, and compassionate counterparts. Our findings indicate that the average empathy rating of responses generated by ChatGPT exceeds those crafted by humans by approximately 10%. Additionally, instructing ChatGPT to incorporate a clear understanding of empathy in its responses makes the responses align approximately 5 times more closely with the expectations of individuals possessing a high degree of empathy, compared to human responses. The proposed evaluation framework serves as a scalable and adaptable framework to assess the empathetic capabilities of newer and updated versions of large language models, eliminating the need to replicate the current study's results in future research.

------------

`[2403.05574] HealMe: Harnessing Cognitive Reframing in Large Language Models for Psychotherapy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05574>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 09:10:34 GMT
    Mengxi Xiao, Qianqian Xie, Ziyan Kuang, Zhicheng Liu, Kailai Yang, Min Peng, Weiguang Han, Jimin Huang

Large Language Models (LLMs) can play a vital role in psychotherapy by adeptly handling the crucial task of cognitive reframing and overcoming challenges such as shame, distrust, therapist skill variability, and resource scarcity. Previous LLMs in cognitive reframing mainly converted negative emotions to positive ones, but these approaches have limited efficacy, often not promoting clients' self-discovery of alternative perspectives. In this paper, we unveil the Helping and Empowering through Adaptive Language in Mental Enhancement (HealMe) model. This novel cognitive reframing therapy method effectively addresses deep-rooted negative thoughts and fosters rational, balanced perspectives. Diverging from traditional LLM methods, HealMe employs empathetic dialogue based on psychotherapeutic frameworks. It systematically guides clients through distinguishing circumstances from feelings, brainstorming alternative viewpoints, and developing empathetic, actionable suggestions. Moreover, we adopt the first comprehensive and expertly crafted psychological evaluation metrics, specifically designed to rigorously assess the performance of cognitive reframing, in both AI-simulated dialogues and real-world therapeutic conversations. Experimental results show that our model outperforms others in terms of empathy, guidance, and logical coherence, demonstrating its effectiveness and potential positive impact on psychotherapy.

------------

`[2403.05578] Chaining text-to-image and large language model: A novel approach for generating personalized e-commerce banners <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05578>`__

::

    Wed, 28 Feb 2024 07:56:04 GMT
    Shanu Vashishtha, Abhinav Prakash, Lalitesh Morishetti, Kaushiki Nag, Yokila Arora, Sushant Kumar and Kannan Achan

Text-to-image models such as stable diffusion have opened a plethora of opportunities for generating art. Recent literature has surveyed the use of text-to-image models for enhancing the work of many creative artists. Many e-commerce platforms employ a manual process to generate the banners, which is time-consuming and has limitations of scalability. In this work, we demonstrate the use of text-to-image models for generating personalized web banners with dynamic content for online shoppers based on their interactions. The novelty in this approach lies in converting users' interaction data to meaningful prompts without human intervention. To this end, we utilize a large language model (LLM) to systematically extract a tuple of attributes from item meta-information. The attributes are then passed to a text-to-image model via prompt engineering to generate images for the banner. Our results show that the proposed approach can create high-quality personalized banners for users.

------------

`[2403.05583] A Cross-Modal Approach to Silent Speech with LLM-Enhanced Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05583>`__

::

    Sat, 2 Mar 2024 21:15:24 GMT
    Tyler Benster, Guy Wilson, Reshef Elisha, Francis R Willett, Shaul Druckmann

Silent Speech Interfaces (SSIs) offer a noninvasive alternative to brain-computer interfaces for soundless verbal communication. We introduce Multimodal Orofacial Neural Audio (MONA), a system that leverages cross-modal alignment through novel loss functions--cross-contrast (crossCon) and supervised temporal contrast (supTcon)--to train a multimodal model with a shared latent representation. This architecture enables the use of audio-only datasets like LibriSpeech to improve silent speech recognition. Additionally, our introduction of Large Language Model (LLM) Integrated Scoring Adjustment (LISA) significantly improves recognition accuracy. Together, MONA LISA reduces the state-of-the-art word error rate (WER) from 28.8% to 12.2% in the Gaddy (2020) benchmark dataset for silent speech on an open vocabulary. For vocal EMG recordings, our method improves the state-of-the-art from 23.3% to 3.7% WER. In the Brain-to-Text 2024 competition, LISA performs best, improving the top WER from 9.8% to 8.9%. To the best of our knowledge, this work represents the first instance where noninvasive silent speech recognition on an open vocabulary has cleared the threshold of 15% WER, demonstrating that SSIs can be a viable alternative to automatic speech recognition (ASR). Our work not only narrows the performance gap between silent and vocalized speech but also opens new possibilities in human-computer interaction, demonstrating the potential of cross-modal approaches in noisy and data-limited regimes.

------------

`[2403.05681] DP-TabICL: In-Context Learning with Differentially Private Tabular Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05681>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 21:19:01 GMT
    Alycia N. Carey, Karuna Bhaila, Kennedy Edemacu, Xintao Wu

In-context learning (ICL) enables large language models (LLMs) to adapt to new tasks by conditioning on demonstrations of question-answer pairs and it has been shown to have comparable performance to costly model retraining and fine-tuning. Recently, ICL has been extended to allow tabular data to be used as demonstration examples by serializing individual records into natural language formats. However, it has been shown that LLMs can leak information contained in prompts, and since tabular data often contain sensitive information, understanding how to protect the underlying tabular data used in ICL is a critical area of research. This work serves as an initial investigation into how to use differential privacy (DP) -- the long-established gold standard for data privacy and anonymization -- to protect tabular data used in ICL. Specifically, we investigate the application of DP mechanisms for private tabular ICL via data privatization prior to serialization and prompting. We formulate two private ICL frameworks with provable privacy guarantees in both the local (LDP-TabICL) and global (GDP-TabICL) DP scenarios via injecting noise into individual records or group statistics, respectively.
We evaluate our DP-based frameworks on eight real-world tabular datasets and across multiple ICL and DP settings. Our evaluations show that DP-based ICL can protect the privacy of the underlying tabular data while achieving comparable performance to non-LLM baselines, especially under high privacy regimes.

------------

`[2403.05701] Are Large Language Models Aligned with People's Social Intuitions for Human-Robot Interactions? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05701>`__

::

    Fri, 8 Mar 2024 22:23:23 GMT
    Lennart Wachowiak, Andrew Coles, Oya Celiktutan, Gerard Canal

Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly used in robotics, especially for high-level action planning. Meanwhile, many robotics applications involve human supervisors or collaborators. Hence, it is crucial for LLMs to generate socially acceptable actions that align with people's preferences and values. In this work, we test whether LLMs capture people's intuitions about behavior judgments and communication preferences in human-robot interaction (HRI) scenarios. For evaluation, we reproduce three HRI user studies, comparing the output of LLMs with that of real participants. We find that GPT-4 strongly outperforms other models, generating answers that correlate strongly with users' answers in two studies $\unicode{x2014}$ the first study dealing with selecting the most appropriate communicative act for a robot in various situations ($r_s$ = 0.82), and the second with judging the desirability, intentionality, and surprisingness of behavior ($r_s$ = 0.83). However, for the last study, testing whether people judge the behavior of robots and humans differently, no model achieves strong correlations. Moreover, we show that vision models fail to capture the essence of video stimuli and that LLMs tend to rate different communicative acts and behavior desirability higher than people.

------------

`[2403.06039] A Preliminary Exploration of YouTubers' Use of Generative-AI in Content Creation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06039>`__

::

    Sat, 9 Mar 2024 23:22:56 GMT
    Yao Lyu, He Zhang, Shuo Niu, Jie Cai

Content creators increasingly utilize generative artificial intelligence (Gen-AI) on platforms such as YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, and various blogging sites to produce imaginative images, AI-generated videos, and articles using Large Language Models (LLMs). Despite its growing popularity, there remains an underexplored area concerning the specific domains where AI-generated content is being applied, and the methodologies content creators employ with Gen-AI tools during the creation process. This study initially explores this emerging area through a qualitative analysis of 68 YouTube videos demonstrating Gen-AI usage. Our research focuses on identifying the content domains, the variety of tools used, the activities performed, and the nature of the final products generated by Gen-AI in the context of user-generated content.

------------

`[2403.06095] RepoHyper: Better Context Retrieval Is All You Need for Repository-Level Code Completion <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06095>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 05:10:34 GMT
    Huy N. Phan and Hoang N. Phan and Tien N. Nguyen and Nghi D. Q. Bui

Code Large Language Models (CodeLLMs) have demonstrated impressive proficiency in code completion tasks. However, they often fall short of fully understanding the extensive context of a project repository, such as the intricacies of relevant files and class hierarchies, which can result in less precise completions. To overcome these limitations, we present RepoHyper, a multifaceted framework designed to address the complex challenges associated with repository-level code completion. Central to RepoHyper is the Repo-level Semantic Graph (RSG), a novel semantic graph structure that encapsulates the vast context of code repositories. Furthermore, RepoHyper leverages Expand and Refine retrieval method, including a graph expansion and a link prediction algorithm applied to the RSG, enabling the effective retrieval and prioritization of relevant code snippets. Our evaluations show that RepoHyper markedly outperforms existing techniques in repository-level code completion, showcasing enhanced accuracy across various datasets when compared to several strong baselines.

------------

`[2403.06131] FedPIT: Towards Privacy-preserving and Few-shot Federated Instruction Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06131>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 08:41:22 GMT
    Zhuo Zhang, Jingyuan Zhang, Jintao Huang, Lizhen Qu, Hongzhi Zhang, Zenglin Xu

Instruction tuning has proven essential for enhancing the performance of large language models (LLMs) in generating human-aligned responses. However, collecting diverse, high-quality instruction data for tuning poses challenges, particularly in privacy-sensitive domains. Federated instruction tuning (FedIT) has emerged as a solution, leveraging federated learning from multiple data owners while preserving privacy. Yet, it faces challenges due to limited instruction data and vulnerabilities to training data extraction attacks. To address these issues, we propose a novel federated algorithm, FedPIT, which utilizes LLMs' in-context learning capability to self-generate task-specific synthetic data for training autonomously. Our method employs parameter-isolated training to maintain global parameters trained on synthetic data and local parameters trained on augmented local data, effectively thwarting data extraction attacks. Extensive experiments on real-world medical data demonstrate the effectiveness of FedPIT in improving federated few-shot performance while preserving privacy and robustness against data heterogeneity.

------------

`[2403.06420] RLingua: Improving Reinforcement Learning Sample Efficiency in Robotic Manipulations With Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06420>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 04:13:26 GMT
    Liangliang Chen, Yutian Lei, Shiyu Jin, Ying Zhang, Liangjun Zhang

Reinforcement learning (RL) has demonstrated its capability in solving various tasks but is notorious for its low sample efficiency. In this paper, we propose RLingua, a framework that can leverage the internal knowledge of large language models (LLMs) to reduce the sample complexity of RL in robotic manipulations. To this end, we first present how to extract the prior knowledge of LLMs by prompt engineering so that a preliminary rule-based robot controller for a specific task can be generated. Despite being imperfect, the LLM-generated robot controller is utilized to produce action samples during rollouts with a decaying probability, thereby improving RL's sample efficiency.
We employ the actor-critic framework and modify the actor loss to regularize the policy learning towards the LLM-generated controller. RLingua also provides a novel method of improving the imperfect LLM-generated robot controllers by RL. We demonstrated that RLingua can significantly reduce the sample complexity of TD3 in the robot tasks of panda_gym and achieve high success rates in sparsely rewarded robot tasks in RLBench, where the standard TD3 fails.
Additionally, We validated RLingua's effectiveness in real-world robot experiments through Sim2Real, demonstrating that the learned policies are effectively transferable to real robot tasks. Further details and videos about our work are available at our project website https://rlingua.github.io.

------------

`[2403.06447] CoRAL: Collaborative Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models Improve Long-tail Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06447>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 05:49:34 GMT
    Junda Wu, Cheng-Chun Chang, Tong Yu, Zhankui He, Jianing Wang, Yupeng Hou, Julian McAuley

The long-tail recommendation is a challenging task for traditional recommender systems, due to data sparsity and data imbalance issues. The recent development of large language models (LLMs) has shown their abilities in complex reasoning, which can help to deduce users' preferences based on very few previous interactions. However, since most LLM-based systems rely on items' semantic meaning as the sole evidence for reasoning, the collaborative information of user-item interactions is neglected, which can cause the LLM's reasoning to be misaligned with task-specific collaborative information of the dataset. To further align LLMs' reasoning to task-specific user-item interaction knowledge, we introduce collaborative retrieval-augmented LLMs, CoRAL, which directly incorporate collaborative evidence into the prompts.
Based on the retrieved user-item interactions, the LLM can analyze shared and distinct preferences among users, and summarize the patterns indicating which types of users would be attracted by certain items. The retrieved collaborative evidence prompts the LLM to align its reasoning with the user-item interaction patterns in the dataset. However, since the capacity of the input prompt is limited, finding the minimally-sufficient collaborative information for recommendation tasks can be challenging. We propose to find the optimal interaction set through a sequential decision-making process and develop a retrieval policy learned through a reinforcement learning (RL) framework, CoRAL. Our experimental results show that CoRAL can significantly improve LLMs' reasoning abilities on specific recommendation tasks. Our analysis also reveals that CoRAL can more efficiently explore collaborative information through reinforcement learning.

------------

`[2403.06465] RecAI: Leveraging Large Language Models for Next-Generation Recommender Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06465>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:07:02 GMT
    Jianxun Lian, Yuxuan Lei, Xu Huang, Jing Yao, Wei Xu, Xing Xie

This paper introduces RecAI, a practical toolkit designed to augment or even revolutionize recommender systems with the advanced capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). RecAI provides a suite of tools, including Recommender AI Agent, Recommendation-oriented Language Models, Knowledge Plugin, RecExplainer, and Evaluator, to facilitate the integration of LLMs into recommender systems from multifaceted perspectives. The new generation of recommender systems, empowered by LLMs, are expected to be more versatile, explainable, conversational, and controllable, paving the way for more intelligent and user-centric recommendation experiences. We hope the open-source of RecAI can help accelerate evolution of new advanced recommender systems. The source code of RecAI is available at \url{https://github.com/microsoft/RecAI}.

------------

`[2403.06642] KELLMRec: Knowledge-Enhanced Large Language Models for Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06642>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:04:20 GMT
    Weiqing Luo, Chonggang Song, Lingling Yi, Gong Cheng

The utilization of semantic information is an important research problem in the field of recommender systems, which aims to complement the missing parts of mainstream ID-based approaches. With the rise of LLM, its ability to act as a knowledge base and its reasoning capability have opened up new possibilities for this research area, making LLM-based recommendation an emerging research direction. However, directly using LLM to process semantic information for recommendation scenarios is unreliable and sub-optimal due to several problems such as hallucination. A promising way to cope with this is to use external knowledge to aid LLM in generating truthful and usable text. Inspired by the above motivation, we propose a Knowledge-Enhanced LLMRec method. In addition to using external knowledge in prompts, the proposed method also includes a knowledge-based contrastive learning scheme for training. Experiments on public datasets and in-enterprise datasets validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

------------

`[2403.06659] Zero-Shot ECG Classification with Multimodal Learning and Test-time Clinical Knowledge Enhancement <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06659>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:28:55 GMT
    Che Liu, Zhongwei Wan, Cheng Ouyang, Anand Shah, Wenjia Bai, Rossella Arcucci

Electrocardiograms (ECGs) are non-invasive diagnostic tools crucial for detecting cardiac arrhythmic diseases in clinical practice. While ECG Self-supervised Learning (eSSL) methods show promise in representation learning from unannotated ECG data, they often overlook the clinical knowledge that can be found in reports. This oversight and the requirement for annotated samples for downstream tasks limit eSSL's versatility. In this work, we address these issues with the Multimodal ECG Representation Learning (MERL}) framework.
Through multimodal learning on ECG records and associated reports, MERL is capable of performing zero-shot ECG classification with text prompts, eliminating the need for training data in downstream tasks. At test time, we propose the Clinical Knowledge Enhanced Prompt Engineering (CKEPE) approach, which uses Large Language Models (LLMs) to exploit external expert-verified clinical knowledge databases, generating more descriptive prompts and reducing hallucinations in LLM-generated content to boost zero-shot classification.
Based on MERL, we perform the first benchmark across six public ECG datasets, showing the superior performance of MERL compared against eSSL methods.
Notably, MERL achieves an average AUC score of 75.2% in zero-shot classification (without training data), 3.2% higher than linear probed eSSL methods with 10\% annotated training data, averaged across all six datasets.

------------

`[2403.06660] FashionReGen: LLM-Empowered Fashion Report Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06660>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:29:35 GMT
    Yujuan Ding, Yunshan Ma, Wenqi Fan, Yige Yao, Tat-Seng Chua, Qing Li

Fashion analysis refers to the process of examining and evaluating trends, styles, and elements within the fashion industry to understand and interpret its current state, generating fashion reports. It is traditionally performed by fashion professionals based on their expertise and experience, which requires high labour cost and may also produce biased results for relying heavily on a small group of people. In this paper, to tackle the Fashion Report Generation (FashionReGen) task, we propose an intelligent Fashion Analyzing and Reporting system based the advanced Large Language Models (LLMs), debbed as GPT-FAR.
Specifically, it tries to deliver FashionReGen based on effective catwalk analysis, which is equipped with several key procedures, namely, catwalk understanding, collective organization and analysis, and report generation. By posing and exploring such an open-ended, complex and domain-specific task of FashionReGen, it is able to test the general capability of LLMs in fashion domain. It also inspires the explorations of more high-level tasks with industrial significance in other domains. Video illustration and more materials of GPT-FAR can be found in https://github.com/CompFashion/FashionReGen.

------------

`[2403.06675] Poisoning Programs by Un-Repairing Code: Security Concerns of AI-generated Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06675>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:47:04 GMT
    Cristina Improta

AI-based code generators have gained a fundamental role in assisting developers in writing software starting from natural language (NL). However, since these large language models are trained on massive volumes of data collected from unreliable online sources (e.g., GitHub, Hugging Face), AI models become an easy target for data poisoning attacks, in which an attacker corrupts the training data by injecting a small amount of poison into it, i.e., astutely crafted malicious samples. In this position paper, we address the security of AI code generators by identifying a novel data poisoning attack that results in the generation of vulnerable code. Next, we devise an extensive evaluation of how these attacks impact state-of-the-art models for code generation. Lastly, we discuss potential solutions to overcome this threat.

------------

`[2403.06952] SELMA: Learning and Merging Skill-Specific Text-to-Image Experts with Auto-Generated Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06952>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:35:33 GMT
    Jialu Li, Jaemin Cho, Yi-Lin Sung, Jaehong Yoon, Mohit Bansal

Recent text-to-image (T2I) generation models have demonstrated impressive capabilities in creating images from text descriptions. However, these T2I generation models often fall short of generating images that precisely match the details of the text inputs, such as incorrect spatial relationship or missing objects. In this paper, we introduce SELMA: Skill-Specific Expert Learning and Merging with Auto-Generated Data, a novel paradigm to improve the faithfulness of T2I models by fine-tuning models on automatically generated, multi-skill image-text datasets, with skill-specific expert learning and merging. First, SELMA leverages an LLM's in-context learning capability to generate multiple datasets of text prompts that can teach different skills, and then generates the images with a T2I model based on the prompts. Next, SELMA adapts the T2I model to the new skills by learning multiple single-skill LoRA (low-rank adaptation) experts followed by expert merging. Our independent expert fine-tuning specializes multiple models for different skills, and expert merging helps build a joint multi-skill T2I model that can generate faithful images given diverse text prompts, while mitigating the knowledge conflict from different datasets. We empirically demonstrate that SELMA significantly improves the semantic alignment and text faithfulness of state-of-the-art T2I diffusion models on multiple benchmarks (+2.1% on TIFA and +6.9% on DSG), human preference metrics (PickScore, ImageReward, and HPS), as well as human evaluation. Moreover, fine-tuning with image-text pairs auto-collected via SELMA shows comparable performance to fine-tuning with ground truth data.
Lastly, we show that fine-tuning with images from a weaker T2I model can help improve the generation quality of a stronger T2I model, suggesting promising weak-to-strong generalization in T2I models.

------------

`[2403.06199] A Comprehensive Overhaul of Multimodal Assistant with Small Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06199>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 12:43:27 GMT
    Minjie Zhu, Yichen Zhu, Xin Liu, Ning Liu, Zhiyuan Xu, Chaomin Shen, Yaxin Peng, Zhicai Ou, Feifei Feng, Jian Tang

Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have showcased impressive skills in tasks related to visual understanding and reasoning. Yet, their widespread application faces obstacles due to the high computational demands during both the training and inference phases, restricting their use to a limited audience within the research and user communities. In this paper, we investigate the design aspects of Multimodal Small Language Models (MSLMs) and propose an efficient multimodal assistant named Mipha, which is designed to create synergy among various aspects: visual representation, language models, and optimization strategies. We show that without increasing the volume of training data, our Mipha-3B outperforms the state-of-the-art large MLLMs, especially LLaVA-1.5-13B, on multiple benchmarks. Through detailed discussion, we provide insights and guidelines for developing strong MSLMs that rival the capabilities of MLLMs. Our code is available at https://github.com/zhuyiche/Mipha.

------------

`[2403.06249] No Language is an Island: Unifying Chinese and English in Financial Large Language Models, Instruction Data, and Benchmarks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06249>`__

::

    Sun, 10 Mar 2024 16:22:20 GMT
    Gang Hu, Ke Qin, Chenhan Yuan, Min Peng, Alejandro Lopez-Lira, Benyou Wang, Sophia Ananiadou, Wanlong Yu, Jimin Huang, and Qianqian Xie

While the progression of Large Language Models (LLMs) has notably propelled financial analysis, their application has largely been confined to singular language realms, leaving untapped the potential of bilingual Chinese-English capacity. To bridge this chasm, we introduce ICE-PIXIU, seamlessly amalgamating the ICE-INTENT model and ICE-FLARE benchmark for bilingual financial analysis.
ICE-PIXIU uniquely integrates a spectrum of Chinese tasks, alongside translated and original English datasets, enriching the breadth and depth of bilingual financial modeling. It provides unrestricted access to diverse model variants, a substantial compilation of diverse cross-lingual and multi-modal instruction data, and an evaluation benchmark with expert annotations, comprising 10 NLP tasks, 20 bilingual specific tasks, totaling 1,185k datasets. Our thorough evaluation emphasizes the advantages of incorporating these bilingual datasets, especially in translation tasks and utilizing original English data, enhancing both linguistic flexibility and analytical acuity in financial contexts.
Notably, ICE-INTENT distinguishes itself by showcasing significant enhancements over conventional LLMs and existing financial LLMs in bilingual milieus, underscoring the profound impact of robust bilingual data on the accuracy and efficacy of financial NLP.

------------

`[2403.06485] Knowledge-aware Alert Aggregation in Large-scale Cloud Systems: a Hybrid Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06485>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:48:35 GMT
    Jinxi Kuang, Jinyang Liu, Junjie Huang, Renyi Zhong, Jiazhen Gu, Lan Yu, Rui Tan, Zengyin Yang, Michael R. Lyu

Due to the scale and complexity of cloud systems, a system failure would trigger an "alert storm", i.e., massive correlated alerts. Although these alerts can be traced back to a few root causes, the overwhelming number makes it infeasible for manual handling. Alert aggregation is thus critical to help engineers concentrate on the root cause and facilitate failure resolution.
Existing methods typically utilize semantic similarity-based methods or statistical methods to aggregate alerts. However, semantic similarity-based methods overlook the causal rationale of alerts, while statistical methods can hardly handle infrequent alerts.
To tackle these limitations, we introduce leveraging external knowledge, i.e., Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) of alerts as a supplement. We propose COLA, a novel hybrid approach based on correlation mining and LLM (Large Language Model) reasoning for online alert aggregation. The correlation mining module effectively captures the temporal and spatial relations between alerts, measuring their correlations in an efficient manner. Subsequently, only uncertain pairs with low confidence are forwarded to the LLM reasoning module for detailed analysis. This hybrid design harnesses both statistical evidence for frequent alerts and the reasoning capabilities of computationally intensive LLMs, ensuring the overall efficiency of COLA in handling large volumes of alerts in practical scenarios. We evaluate COLA on three datasets collected from the production environment of a large-scale cloud platform. The experimental results show COLA achieves F1-scores from 0.901 to 0.930, outperforming state-of-the-art methods and achieving comparable efficiency. We also share our experience in deploying COLA in our real-world cloud system, Cloud X.

------------

`[2403.06949] Materials science in the era of large language models: a perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06949>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:34:25 GMT
    Ge Lei, Ronan Docherty, Samuel J. Cooper

Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered considerable interest due to their impressive natural language capabilities, which in conjunction with various emergent properties make them versatile tools in workflows ranging from complex code generation to heuristic finding for combinatorial problems. In this paper we offer a perspective on their applicability to materials science research, arguing their ability to handle ambiguous requirements across a range of tasks and disciplines mean they could be a powerful tool to aid researchers. We qualitatively examine basic LLM theory, connecting it to relevant properties and techniques in the literature before providing two case studies that demonstrate their use in task automation and knowledge extraction at-scale. At their current stage of development, we argue LLMs should be viewed less as oracles of novel insight, and more as tireless workers that can accelerate and unify exploration across domains. It is our hope that this paper can familiarise material science researchers with the concepts needed to leverage these tools in their own research.

------------

`[2403.06664] Smart-Infinity: Fast Large Language Model Training using Near-Storage Processing on a Real System <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06664>`__

::

    Mon, 11 Mar 2024 12:32:14 GMT
    Hongsun Jang, Jaeyong Song, Jaewon Jung, Jaeyoung Park, Youngsok Kim, and Jinho Lee

The recent huge advance of Large Language Models (LLMs) is mainly driven by the increase in the number of parameters. This has led to substantial memory capacity requirements, necessitating the use of dozens of GPUs just to meet the capacity. One popular solution to this is storage-offloaded training, which uses host memory and storage as an extended memory hierarchy. However, this obviously comes at the cost of storage bandwidth bottleneck because storage devices have orders of magnitude lower bandwidth compared to that of GPU device memories. Our work, Smart-Infinity, addresses the storage bandwidth bottleneck of storage-offloaded LLM training using near-storage processing devices on a real system. The main component of Smart-Infinity is SmartUpdate, which performs parameter updates on custom near-storage accelerators. We identify that moving parameter updates to the storage side removes most of the storage traffic. In addition, we propose an efficient data transfer handler structure to address the system integration issues for Smart-Infinity. The handler allows overlapping data transfers with fixed memory consumption by reusing the device buffer. Lastly, we propose accelerator-assisted gradient compression/decompression to enhance the scalability of Smart-Infinity. When scaling to multiple near-storage processing devices, the write traffic on the shared channel becomes the bottleneck. To alleviate this, we compress the gradients on the GPU and decompress them on the accelerators. It provides further acceleration from reduced traffic. As a result, Smart-Infinity achieves a significant speedup compared to the baseline. Notably, Smart-Infinity is a ready-to-use approach that is fully integrated into PyTorch on a real system.
We will open-source Smart-Infinity to facilitate its use.

------------

`[2201.07381] Unveiling Project-Specific Bias in Neural Code Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.07381>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:52:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhiming Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 19 Jan 2022 02:09:48 UTC (2,117 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:52:47 UTC (7,653 KB)
    Zhiming Li, Yanzhou Li, Tianlin Li, Mengnan Du, Bozhi Wu, Yushi Cao, Junzhe Jiang, Yang Liu

Deep learning has introduced significant improvements in many software analysis tasks. Although the Large Language Models (LLMs) based neural code models demonstrate commendable performance when trained and tested within the intra-project independent and identically distributed (IID) setting, they often struggle to generalize effectively to real-world inter-project out-of-distribution (OOD) data. In this work, we show that this phenomenon is caused by the heavy reliance on project-specific shortcuts for prediction instead of ground-truth evidence. We propose a Cond-Idf measurement to interpret this behavior, which quantifies the relatedness of a token with a label and its project-specificness. The strong correlation between model behavior and the proposed measurement indicates that without proper regularization, models tend to leverage spurious statistical cues for prediction. Equipped with these observations, we propose a novel bias mitigation mechanism that regularizes the model's learning behavior by leveraging latent logic relations among samples. Experimental results on two representative program analysis tasks indicate that our mitigation framework can improve both inter-project OOD generalization and adversarial robustness, while not sacrificing accuracy on intra-project IID data.

------------

`[2211.09935] CAPE: Corrective Actions from Precondition Errors using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09935>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 13:53:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Shreyas Sundara Raman [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 17 Nov 2022 23:14:51 UTC (4,624 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 23 Oct 2023 03:56:16 UTC (18,486 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 13:53:47 UTC (18,749 KB)
    Shreyas Sundara Raman, Vanya Cohen, Ifrah Idrees, Eric Rosen, Ray Mooney, Stefanie Tellex and David Paulius

Extracting commonsense knowledge from a large language model (LLM) offers a path to designing intelligent robots. Existing approaches that leverage LLMs for planning are unable to recover when an action fails and often resort to retrying failed actions, without resolving the error's underlying cause. We propose a novel approach (CAPE) that attempts to propose corrective actions to resolve precondition errors during planning. CAPE improves the quality of generated plans by leveraging few-shot reasoning from action preconditions. Our approach enables embodied agents to execute more tasks than baseline methods while ensuring semantic correctness and minimizing re-prompting. In VirtualHome, CAPE generates executable plans while improving a human-annotated plan correctness metric from 28.89% to 49.63% over SayCan. Our improvements transfer to a Boston Dynamics Spot robot initialized with a set of skills (specified in language) and associated preconditions, where CAPE improves the correctness metric of the executed task plans by 76.49% compared to SayCan. Our approach enables the robot to follow natural language commands and robustly recover from failures, which baseline approaches largely cannot resolve or address inefficiently.

------------

`[2308.14363] Rethinking Mobile AI Ecosystem in the LLM Era <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14363>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:18:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinliang Yuan [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 28 Aug 2023 07:21:26 UTC (6,264 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:18:17 UTC (9,017 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 02:17:03 UTC (9,017 KB)
    Jinliang Yuan, Chen Yang, Dongqi Cai, Shihe Wang, Xin Yuan, Zeling Zhang, Xiang Li, Dingge Zhang, Hanzi Mei, Xianqing Jia, Shangguang Wang, Mengwei Xu

In today's landscape, smartphones have evolved into hubs for hosting a multitude of deep learning models aimed at local execution. A key realization driving this work is the notable fragmentation among these models, characterized by varied architectures, operators, and implementations. This fragmentation imposes a significant burden on the comprehensive optimization of hardware, system settings, and algorithms.
Buoyed by the recent strides in large foundation models, this work introduces a pioneering paradigm for mobile AI: a collaborative management approach between the mobile OS and hardware, overseeing a foundational model capable of serving a broad spectrum of mobile AI tasks, if not all. This foundational model resides within the NPU and remains impervious to app or OS revisions, akin to firmware. Concurrently, each app contributes a concise, offline fine-tuned "adapter" tailored to distinct downstream tasks. From this concept emerges a concrete instantiation known as \sys. It amalgamates a curated selection of publicly available Large Language Models (LLMs) and facilitates dynamic data flow. This concept's viability is substantiated through the creation of an exhaustive benchmark encompassing 38 mobile AI tasks spanning 50 datasets, including domains such as Computer Vision (CV), Natural Language Processing (NLP), audio, sensing, and multimodal inputs. Spanning this benchmark, \sys unveils its impressive performance. It attains accuracy parity in 85\% of tasks, demonstrates improved scalability in terms of storage and memory, and offers satisfactory inference speed on Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) mobile devices fortified with NPU support. This stands in stark contrast to task-specific models tailored for individual applications.

------------

`[2308.15272] AutoDroid: LLM-powered Task Automation in Android <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.15272>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 09:38:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Hao Wen [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 29 Aug 2023 13:02:30 UTC (6,502 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 6 Sep 2023 14:14:04 UTC (6,502 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Sep 2023 14:08:32 UTC (6,502 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 09:38:51 UTC (6,520 KB)
    Hao Wen, Yuanchun Li, Guohong Liu, Shanhui Zhao, Tao Yu, Toby Jia-Jun Li, Shiqi Jiang, Yunhao Liu, Yaqin Zhang, Yunxin Liu

Mobile task automation is an attractive technique that aims to enable voice-based hands-free user interaction with smartphones. However, existing approaches suffer from poor scalability due to the limited language understanding ability and the non-trivial manual efforts required from developers or end-users. The recent advance of large language models (LLMs) in language understanding and reasoning inspires us to rethink the problem from a model-centric perspective, where task preparation, comprehension, and execution are handled by a unified language model. In this work, we introduce AutoDroid, a mobile task automation system capable of handling arbitrary tasks on any Android application without manual efforts. The key insight is to combine the commonsense knowledge of LLMs and domain-specific knowledge of apps through automated dynamic analysis. The main components include a functionality-aware UI representation method that bridges the UI with the LLM, exploration-based memory injection techniques that augment the app-specific domain knowledge of LLM, and a multi-granularity query optimization module that reduces the cost of model inference. We integrate AutoDroid with off-the-shelf LLMs including online GPT-4/GPT-3.5 and on-device Vicuna, and evaluate its performance on a new benchmark for memory-augmented Android task automation with 158 common tasks. The results demonstrated that AutoDroid is able to precisely generate actions with an accuracy of 90.9%, and complete tasks with a success rate of 71.3%, outperforming the GPT-4-powered baselines by 36.4% and 39.7%. The demo, benchmark suites, and source code of AutoDroid will be released at url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2309.10444] Exploring Iterative Enhancement for Improving Learnersourced Multiple-Choice Question Explanations with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10444>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:48:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Qiming Bao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 19 Sep 2023 09:04:15 UTC (3,809 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 19 Oct 2023 11:01:19 UTC (3,809 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 19 Jan 2024 13:19:13 UTC (620 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:48:41 UTC (246 KB)
    Qiming Bao, Juho Leinonen, Alex Yuxuan Peng, Wanjun Zhong, Ga\"el Gendron, Timothy Pistotti, Alice Huang, Paul Denny, Michael Witbrock and Jiamou Liu

Large language models exhibit superior capabilities in processing and understanding language, yet their applications in educational contexts remain underexplored. Learnersourcing enhances learning by engaging students in creating their own educational content. When learnersourcing multiple-choice questions, creating explanations for the solution of a question is a crucial step; it helps other students understand the solution and promotes a deeper understanding of related concepts. However, it is often difficult for students to craft effective solution explanations, due to limited subject understanding. To help scaffold the task of automated explanation generation, we present and evaluate a framework called "ILearner-LLM", that iteratively enhances the generated explanations for the given questions with large language models. Comprising an explanation generation model and an explanation evaluation model, the framework generates high-quality student-aligned explanations by iteratively feeding the quality rating score from the evaluation model back into the instruction prompt of the explanation generation model. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our ILearner-LLM on LLaMA2-13B and GPT-4 to generate higher quality explanations that are closer to those written by students on five PeerWise datasets. Our findings represent a promising path to enrich the learnersourcing experience for students and to enhance the capabilities of large language models for educational applications.

------------

`[2310.04963] LLM4VV: Developing LLM-Driven Testsuite for Compiler Validation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.04963>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 21:05:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Sunita Chandrasekaran [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 8 Oct 2023 01:43:39 UTC (1,281 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 5 Nov 2023 20:53:13 UTC (1,283 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 21:05:28 UTC (50 KB)
    Christian Munley, Aaron Jarmusch and Sunita Chandrasekaran

Large language models (LLMs) are a new and powerful tool for a wide span of applications involving natural language and demonstrate impressive code generation abilities. The goal of this work is to automatically generate tests and use these tests to validate and verify compiler implementations of a directive-based parallel programming paradigm, OpenACC. To do so, in this paper, we explore the capabilities of state-of-the-art LLMs, including open-source LLMs -- Meta Codellama, Phind fine-tuned version of Codellama, Deepseek Deepseek Coder and closed-source LLMs -- OpenAI GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4-Turbo. We further fine-tuned the open-source LLMs and GPT-3.5-Turbo using our own testsuite dataset along with using the OpenACC specification. We also explored these LLMs using various prompt engineering techniques that include code template, template with retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), one-shot example, one-shot with RAG, expressive prompt with code template and RAG. This paper highlights our findings from over 5000 tests generated via all the above mentioned methods. Our contributions include: (a) exploring the capabilities of the latest and relevant LLMs for code generation, (b) investigating fine-tuning and prompt methods, and (c) analyzing the outcome of LLMs generated tests including manually analysis of representative set of tests. We found the LLM Deepseek-Coder-33b-Instruct produced the most passing tests followed by GPT-4-Turbo.

------------

`[2310.05136] InstructDET: Diversifying Referring Object Detection with Generalized Instructions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05136>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:32:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Ronghao Dang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 8 Oct 2023 12:10:44 UTC (22,290 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 11:04:26 UTC (22,290 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 11 Oct 2023 04:04:07 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    [v4] Tue, 17 Oct 2023 02:27:52 UTC (22,290 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:32:31 UTC (23,584 KB)
    Ronghao Dang, Jiangyan Feng, Haodong Zhang, Chongjian Ge, Lin Song, Lijun Gong, Chengju Liu, Qijun Chen, Feng Zhu, Rui Zhao, Yibing Song

We propose InstructDET, a data-centric method for referring object detection (ROD) that localizes target objects based on user instructions. While deriving from referring expressions (REC), the instructions we leverage are greatly diversified to encompass common user intentions related to object detection. For one image, we produce tremendous instructions that refer to every single object and different combinations of multiple objects. Each instruction and its corresponding object bounding boxes (bbxs) constitute one training data pair. In order to encompass common detection expressions, we involve emerging vision-language model (VLM) and large language model (LLM) to generate instructions guided by text prompts and object bbxs, as the generalizations of foundation models are effective to produce human-like expressions (e.g., describing object property, category, and relationship). We name our constructed dataset as InDET. It contains images, bbxs and generalized instructions that are from foundation models. Our InDET is developed from existing REC datasets and object detection datasets, with the expanding potential that any image with object bbxs can be incorporated through using our InstructDET method. By using our InDET dataset, we show that a conventional ROD model surpasses existing methods on standard REC datasets and our InDET test set. Our data-centric method InstructDET, with automatic data expansion by leveraging foundation models, directs a promising field that ROD can be greatly diversified to execute common object detection instructions.

------------

`[2312.17445] State Machine of Thoughts: Leveraging Past Reasoning Trajectories for Enhancing Problem Solving <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17445>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 02:16:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Jie Shuai [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 29 Dec 2023 03:00:04 UTC (1,109 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 02:16:07 UTC (1,218 KB)
    Jia Liu, Jie Shuai, Xiyao Li

Current Large Language Model-based agents reason within an exploration-evaluation framework, navigating problem-solving processes in a tree-like manner. However, these methods often neglect successful reasoning trajectories once a problem is resolved, leading to inefficient use of these trajectories for future analogous problems. To address this inefficiency, we adopt a state machine to record experience derived from previous reasoning trajectories. Within the state machine, states represent decomposed sub-problems, while state transitions reflect the dependencies among sub-problems. The state machine records both successful and failed trajectories. Utilizing the experience from the state machine, our proposed State Machine of Thoughts (SMoT) selects the most optimal sub-solutions and avoids incorrect ones. Our experiments show that SMoT can significantly improve problem-solving abilities in two exploration-intensive problems: the 24-point game and a taxi navigation reinforcement learning game.

------------

`[2402.04559] Can Large Language Model Agents Simulate Human Trust Behaviors? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04559>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:48:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Chengxing Xie [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 03:37:19 UTC (1,869 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:48:43 UTC (4,231 KB)
    Chengxing Xie, Canyu Chen, Feiran Jia, Ziyu Ye, Kai Shu, Adel Bibi, Ziniu Hu, Philip Torr, Bernard Ghanem, Guohao Li

Large Language Model (LLM) agents have been increasingly adopted as simulation tools to model humans in applications such as social science. However, one fundamental question remains: can LLM agents really simulate human behaviors? In this paper, we focus on one of the most critical behaviors in human interactions, trust, and aim to investigate whether or not LLM agents can simulate human trust behaviors. We first find that LLM agents generally exhibit trust behaviors, referred to as agent trust, under the framework of Trust Games, which are widely recognized in behavioral economics. Then, we discover that LLM agents can have high behavioral alignment with humans regarding trust behaviors, particularly for GPT-4, indicating the feasibility to simulate human trust behaviors with LLM agents. In addition, we probe into the biases in agent trust and the differences in agent trust towards agents and humans. We also explore the intrinsic properties of agent trust under conditions including advanced reasoning strategies and external manipulations. We further offer important implications of our discoveries for various scenarios where trust is paramount. Our study provides new insights into the behaviors of LLM agents and the fundamental analogy between LLMs and humans.

------------

`[2403.04121] Can Large Language Models Reason and Plan? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04121>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 8 Mar 2024 19:51:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Subbarao Kambhampati [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 7 Mar 2024 00:36:32 UTC (5,418 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 8 Mar 2024 19:51:14 UTC (5,418 KB)
    Subbarao Kambhampati

While humans sometimes do show the capability of correcting their own erroneous guesses with self-critiquing, there seems to be no basis for that assumption in the case of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.05525] DeepSeek-VL: Towards Real-World Vision-Language Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05525>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:47:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Haoyu Lu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 8 Mar 2024 18:46:00 UTC (7,220 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 16:47:41 UTC (7,262 KB)
    Haoyu Lu, Wen Liu, Bo Zhang, Bingxuan Wang, Kai Dong, Bo Liu, Jingxiang Sun, Tongzheng Ren, Zhuoshu Li, Hao Yang, Yaofeng Sun, Chengqi Deng, Hanwei Xu, Zhenda Xie, Chong Ruan

We present DeepSeek-VL, an open-source Vision-Language (VL) Model designed for real-world vision and language understanding applications. Our approach is structured around three key dimensions:
We strive to ensure our data is diverse, scalable, and extensively covers real-world scenarios including web screenshots, PDFs, OCR, charts, and knowledge-based content, aiming for a comprehensive representation of practical contexts. Further, we create a use case taxonomy from real user scenarios and construct an instruction tuning dataset accordingly. The fine-tuning with this dataset substantially improves the model's user experience in practical applications. Considering efficiency and the demands of most real-world scenarios, DeepSeek-VL incorporates a hybrid vision encoder that efficiently processes high-resolution images (1024 x 1024), while maintaining a relatively low computational overhead. This design choice ensures the model's ability to capture critical semantic and detailed information across various visual tasks. We posit that a proficient Vision-Language Model should, foremost, possess strong language abilities. To ensure the preservation of LLM capabilities during pretraining, we investigate an effective VL pretraining strategy by integrating LLM training from the beginning and carefully managing the competitive dynamics observed between vision and language modalities.
The DeepSeek-VL family (both 1.3B and 7B models) showcases superior user experiences as a vision-language chatbot in real-world applications, achieving state-of-the-art or competitive performance across a wide range of visual-language benchmarks at the same model size while maintaining robust performance on language-centric benchmarks. We have made both 1.3B and 7B models publicly accessible to foster innovations based on this foundation model.

------------

`[2305.14902] M4: Multi-generator, Multi-domain, and Multi-lingual Black-Box Machine-Generated Text Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14902>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 01:04:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuxia Wang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 May 2023 08:55:11 UTC (51 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 01:04:48 UTC (4,382 KB)
    Yuxia Wang, Jonibek Mansurov, Petar Ivanov, Jinyan Su, Artem Shelmanov, Akim Tsvigun, Chenxi Whitehouse, Osama Mohammed Afzal, Tarek Mahmoud, Toru Sasaki, Thomas Arnold, Alham Fikri Aji, Nizar Habash, Iryna Gurevych, Preslav Nakov

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capability to generate fluent responses to a wide variety of user queries. However, this has also raised concerns about the potential misuse of such texts in journalism, education, and academia. In this study, we strive to create automated systems that can detect machine-generated texts and pinpoint potential misuse. We first introduce a large-scale benchmark \textbf{M4}, which is a multi-generator, multi-domain, and multi-lingual corpus for machine-generated text detection. Through an extensive empirical study of this dataset, we show that it is challenging for detectors to generalize well on instances from unseen domains or LLMs. In such cases, detectors tend to misclassify machine-generated text as human-written. These results show that the problem is far from solved and that there is a lot of room for improvement. We believe that our dataset will enable future research towards more robust approaches to this pressing societal problem. The dataset is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2306.05783] Xiezhi: An Ever-Updating Benchmark for Holistic Domain Knowledge Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.05783>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 09:49:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhouhong Gu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 9 Jun 2023 09:52:05 UTC (4,788 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 15 Jun 2023 06:51:40 UTC (4,792 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 09:49:04 UTC (5,464 KB)
    Zhouhong Gu, Xiaoxuan Zhu, Haoning Ye, Lin Zhang, Jianchen Wang, Yixin Zhu, Sihang Jiang, Zhuozhi Xiong, Zihan Li, Weijie Wu, Qianyu He, Rui Xu, Wenhao Huang, Jingping Liu, Zili Wang, Shusen Wang, Weiguo Zheng, Hongwei Feng, Yanghua Xiao

New Natural Langauge Process~(NLP) benchmarks are urgently needed to align with the rapid development of large language models (LLMs). We present Xiezhi, the most comprehensive evaluation suite designed to assess holistic domain knowledge. Xiezhi comprises multiple-choice questions across 516 diverse disciplines ranging from 13 different subjects with 249,587 questions and accompanied by Xiezhi-Specialty and Xiezhi-Interdiscipline, both with 15k questions. We conduct evaluation of the 47 cutting-edge LLMs on Xiezhi. Results indicate that LLMs exceed average performance of humans in science, engineering, agronomy, medicine, and art, but fall short in economics, jurisprudence, pedagogy, literature, history, and management. We anticipate Xiezhi will help analyze important strengths and shortcomings of LLMs, and the benchmark is released in~\url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2309.01940] CodeApex: A Bilingual Programming Evaluation Benchmark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01940>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:07:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Lingyue Fu Miss [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 5 Sep 2023 04:12:01 UTC (1,817 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 6 Sep 2023 15:36:11 UTC (1,817 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Sep 2023 13:32:38 UTC (1,817 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:07:28 UTC (3,254 KB)
    Lingyue Fu, Huacan Chai, Shuang Luo, Kounianhua Du, Weiming Zhang, Longteng Fan, Jiayi Lei, Renting Rui, Jianghao Lin, Yuchen Fang, Yifan Liu, Jingkuan Wang, Siyuan Qi, Kangning Zhang, Weinan Zhang, Yong Yu

With the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs), there has been a significant improvement in the programming capabilities of models, attracting growing attention from researchers. Evaluating the programming capabilities of LLMs is crucial as it reflects the multifaceted abilities of LLMs, and it has numerous downstream applications. In this paper, we propose CodeApex, a bilingual benchmark dataset focusing on the programming comprehension, code generation, and code correction abilities of LLMs. Programming comprehension task tests LLMs on multiple-choice exam questions covering conceptual understanding, commonsense reasoning, and multi-hop reasoning. The code generation task evaluates LLMs through completing C++ functions based on provided descriptions and prototypes. The code correction task asks LLMs to fix real-world erroneous code segments with different error messages. We evaluate 12 widely used LLMs, including both general-purpose and specialized models. GPT-4 exhibits the best programming capabilities, achieving approximate accuracy of 69%, 54%, and 66% on the three tasks, respectively. Compared to human performance, there is still significant room for improvement in LLM programming. We hope that CodeApex can serve as a reference for evaluating the coding capabilities of LLMs, further promoting their development and growth.

------------

`[2309.03883] DoLa: Decoding by Contrasting Layers Improves Factuality in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.03883>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 02:01:09 GMT
    Submission history From: Yung-Sung Chuang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 7 Sep 2023 17:45:31 UTC (238 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 02:01:09 UTC (243 KB)
    Yung-Sung Chuang, Yujia Xie, Hongyin Luo, Yoon Kim, James Glass, Pengcheng He

Despite their impressive capabilities, large language models (LLMs) are prone to hallucinations, i.e., generating content that deviates from facts seen during pretraining. We propose a simple decoding strategy for reducing hallucinations with pretrained LLMs that does not require conditioning on retrieved external knowledge nor additional fine-tuning. Our approach obtains the next-token distribution by contrasting the differences in logits obtained from projecting the later layers versus earlier layers to the vocabulary space, exploiting the fact that factual knowledge in an LLMs has generally been shown to be localized to particular transformer layers. We find that this Decoding by Contrasting Layers (DoLa) approach is able to better surface factual knowledge and reduce the generation of incorrect facts. DoLa consistently improves the truthfulness across multiple choices tasks and open-ended generation tasks, for example improving the performance of LLaMA family models on TruthfulQA by 12-17% absolute points, demonstrating its potential in making LLMs reliably generate truthful facts.

------------

`[2309.11998] LMSYS-Chat-1M: A Large-Scale Real-World LLM Conversation Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11998>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 19:34:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Lianmin Zheng [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 12:13:55 UTC (1,017 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Sep 2023 00:53:35 UTC (1,017 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 30 Sep 2023 00:30:51 UTC (1,029 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 19:34:57 UTC (1,034 KB)
    Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Tianle Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zhuohan Li, Zi Lin, Eric P. Xing, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica, Hao Zhang

Studying how people interact with large language models (LLMs) in real-world scenarios is increasingly important due to their widespread use in various applications. In this paper, we introduce LMSYS-Chat-1M, a large-scale dataset containing one million real-world conversations with 25 state-of-the-art LLMs. This dataset is collected from 210K unique IP addresses in the wild on our Vicuna demo and Chatbot Arena website. We offer an overview of the dataset's content, including its curation process, basic statistics, and topic distribution, highlighting its diversity, originality, and scale. We demonstrate its versatility through four use cases: developing content moderation models that perform similarly to GPT-4, building a safety benchmark, training instruction-following models that perform similarly to Vicuna, and creating challenging benchmark questions. We believe that this dataset will serve as a valuable resource for understanding and advancing LLM capabilities. The dataset is publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.02107] Instances Need More Care: Rewriting Prompts for Instances with LLMs in the Loop Yields Better Zero-Shot Performance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02107>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 19:07:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Saurabh Srivastava [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 14:51:34 UTC (642 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 5 Oct 2023 22:46:24 UTC (647 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 19:07:00 UTC (11,032 KB)
    Saurabh Srivastava, Chengyue Huang, Weiguo Fan, Ziyu Yao

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized zero-shot task performance, mitigating the need for task-specific annotations while enhancing task generalizability. Despite its advancements, current methods using trigger phrases such as ``Let's think step by step'' remain limited. This study introduces PRomPTed, an approach that optimizes the zero-shot prompts for individual task instances following an innovative manner of ``LLMs in the loop''. Our comprehensive evaluation across 13 datasets and 10 task types based on GPT-4 reveals that PRomPTed significantly outperforms both the naive zero-shot approaches and a strong baseline (i.e., ``Output Refinement'') which refines the task output instead of the input prompt. Our experimental results also confirmed the generalization of this advantage to the relatively weaker GPT-3.5. Even more intriguingly, we found that leveraging GPT-3.5 to rewrite prompts for the stronger GPT-4 not only matches but occasionally exceeds the efficacy of using GPT-4 as the prompt rewriter. Our research thus presents a huge value in not only enhancing zero-shot LLM performance but also potentially enabling supervising LLMs with their weaker counterparts, a capability attracting much interest recently.

------------

`[2310.07225] Exploring the landscape of large language models in medical question answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07225>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 23:26:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Adam Mahdi [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 11 Oct 2023 06:26:19 UTC (25 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 23:26:34 UTC (143 KB)
    Andrew M. Bean, Karolina Korgul, Felix Krones, Robert McCraith, Adam Mahdi

With the rapid development of new large language models (LLMs), each claiming to surpass previous models, an overall picture of medical LLM research can be elusive. To address this challenge, we benchmark a range of top LLMs and identify consistent patterns which appear across models. We test $8$ well-known LLMs on $874$ newly collected questions from Polish medical licensing exams. For each question, we score each model on the top-1 accuracy and the distribution of probabilities assigned. We then compare with factors including question difficulty for humans, question length, and the scores of the other models. LLM accuracies were positively correlated pairwise ($0.29$ to $0.62$). Model performance was also correlated with human performance ($0.07$ to $0.16$), but negatively correlated to the difference between the question-level accuracy of top-scoring and bottom-scoring humans ($-0.16$ to $-0.23$). The top output probability and question length were positive and negative predictors of accuracy respectively (p $< 0.05$). The top scoring LLM, GPT-4 Turbo, scored $82\%$, followed by Med42, PaLM 2, Mixtral and GPT-3.5 around $63\%$. We found evidence of similarities between models in which questions they answer correctly, as well as similarities with human test takers. Larger models typically performed better, but differences in training methods were also highly impactful. Model accuracy was positively correlated with confidence, but negatively correlated with question length. We expect that similar training methods will lead these patterns to persist across future models. These patterns can therefore aid medical experts in forming expectations about LLMs as a category to support application research.

------------

`[2310.08491] Prometheus: Inducing Fine-grained Evaluation Capability in Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08491>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 10:44:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Seungone Kim [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 12 Oct 2023 16:50:08 UTC (12,942 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 10:44:58 UTC (12,942 KB)
    Seungone Kim, Jamin Shin, Yejin Cho, Joel Jang, Shayne Longpre, Hwaran Lee, Sangdoo Yun, Seongjin Shin, Sungdong Kim, James Thorne, Minjoon Seo

Recently, using a powerful proprietary Large Language Model (LLM) (e.g., GPT-4) as an evaluator for long-form responses has become the de facto standard. However, for practitioners with large-scale evaluation tasks and custom criteria in consideration (e.g., child-readability), using proprietary LLMs as an evaluator is unreliable due to the closed-source nature, uncontrolled versioning, and prohibitive costs. In this work, we propose Prometheus, a fully open-source LLM that is on par with GPT-4's evaluation capabilities when the appropriate reference materials (reference answer, score rubric) are accompanied. We first construct the Feedback Collection, a new dataset that consists of 1K fine-grained score rubrics, 20K instructions, and 100K responses and language feedback generated by GPT-4. Using the Feedback Collection, we train Prometheus, a 13B evaluator LLM that can assess any given long-form text based on customized score rubric provided by the user. Experimental results show that Prometheus scores a Pearson correlation of 0.897 with human evaluators when evaluating with 45 customized score rubrics, which is on par with GPT-4 (0.882), and greatly outperforms ChatGPT (0.392). Furthermore, measuring correlation with GPT-4 with 1222 customized score rubrics across four benchmarks (MT Bench, Vicuna Bench, Feedback Bench, Flask Eval) shows similar trends, bolstering Prometheus's capability as an evaluator LLM. Lastly, Prometheus achieves the highest accuracy on two human preference benchmarks (HHH Alignment & MT Bench Human Judgment) compared to open-sourced reward models explicitly trained on human preference datasets, highlighting its potential as an universal reward model. We open-source our code, dataset, and model at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.10638] In-Context Pretraining: Language Modeling Beyond Document Boundaries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10638>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 22:22:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Weijia Shi [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 17:57:12 UTC (1,084 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 19 Oct 2023 01:40:02 UTC (1,084 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 20 Oct 2023 23:44:56 UTC (1,085 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 30 Nov 2023 23:26:35 UTC (1,087 KB)
    [v5] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 22:22:48 UTC (1,088 KB)
    Weijia Shi and Sewon Min and Maria Lomeli and Chunting Zhou and Margaret Li and Gergely Szilvasy and Rich James and Xi Victoria Lin and Noah A. Smith and Luke Zettlemoyer and Scott Yih and Mike Lewis

Large language models (LMs) are currently trained to predict tokens given document prefixes, enabling them to directly perform long-form generation and prompting-style tasks which can be reduced to document completion. Existing pretraining pipelines train LMs by concatenating random sets of short documents to create input contexts but the prior documents provide no signal for predicting the next document. We instead present In-Context Pretraining, a new approach where language models are pretrained on a sequence of related documents, thereby explicitly encouraging them to read and reason across document boundaries. We can do In-Context Pretraining by simply changing the document ordering so that each context contains related documents, and directly applying existing pretraining pipelines. However, this document sorting problem is challenging. There are billions of documents and we would like the sort to maximize contextual similarity for every document without repeating any data. To do this, we introduce approximate algorithms for finding related documents with efficient nearest neighbor search and constructing coherent input contexts with a graph traversal algorithm. Our experiments show In-Context Pretraining offers a simple and scalable approach to significantly enhance LMs'performance: we see notable improvements in tasks that require more complex contextual reasoning, including in-context learning (+8%), reading comprehension (+15%), faithfulness to previous contexts (+16%), long-context reasoning (+5%), and retrieval augmentation (+9%).

------------

`[2310.16789] Detecting Pretraining Data from Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16789>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 22:26:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Weijia Shi [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 25 Oct 2023 17:21:23 UTC (2,405 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 3 Nov 2023 05:27:37 UTC (2,404 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 22:26:06 UTC (2,404 KB)
    Weijia Shi, Anirudh Ajith, Mengzhou Xia, Yangsibo Huang, Daogao Liu, Terra Blevins, Danqi Chen, Luke Zettlemoyer

Although large language models (LLMs) are widely deployed, the data used to train them is rarely disclosed. Given the incredible scale of this data, up to trillions of tokens, it is all but certain that it includes potentially problematic text such as copyrighted materials, personally identifiable information, and test data for widely reported reference benchmarks. However, we currently have no way to know which data of these types is included or in what proportions. In this paper, we study the pretraining data detection problem: given a piece of text and black-box access to an LLM without knowing the pretraining data, can we determine if the model was trained on the provided text? To facilitate this study, we introduce a dynamic benchmark WIKIMIA that uses data created before and after model training to support gold truth detection. We also introduce a new detection method Min-K% Prob based on a simple hypothesis: an unseen example is likely to contain a few outlier words with low probabilities under the LLM, while a seen example is less likely to have words with such low probabilities. Min-K% Prob can be applied without any knowledge about the pretraining corpus or any additional training, departing from previous detection methods that require training a reference model on data that is similar to the pretraining data. Moreover, our experiments demonstrate that Min-K% Prob achieves a 7.4% improvement on WIKIMIA over these previous methods. We apply Min-K% Prob to three real-world scenarios, copyrighted book detection, contaminated downstream example detection and privacy auditing of machine unlearning, and find it a consistently effective solution.

------------

`[2310.18152] Disentangled Representation Learning with Large Language Models for Text-Attributed Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18152>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 16:08:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Yijian Qin [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 27 Oct 2023 14:00:04 UTC (152 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 6 Nov 2023 12:54:14 UTC (152 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 07:12:36 UTC (152 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 16:08:16 UTC (153 KB)
    Yijian Qin, Xin Wang, Ziwei Zhang, Wenwu Zhu

Text-attributed graphs (TAGs) are prevalent on the web and research over TAGs such as citation networks, e-commerce networks and social networks has attracted considerable attention in the web community. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional capabilities across a wide range of tasks. However, the existing works focus on harnessing the potential of LLMs solely relying on prompts to convey graph structure information to LLMs, thus suffering from insufficient understanding of the complex structural relationships within TAGs. To address this problem, in this paper we present the Disentangled Graph-Text Learner (DGTL) model, which is able to enhance the reasoning and predicting capabilities of LLMs for TAGs. Our proposed DGTL model incorporates graph structure information through tailored disentangled graph neural network (GNN) layers, enabling LLMs to capture the intricate relationships hidden in text-attributed graphs from multiple structural factors. Furthermore, DGTL operates with frozen pre-trained LLMs, reducing computational costs and allowing much more flexibility in combining with different LLM models. Experimental evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DGTL model on achieving superior or comparable performance over state-of-the-art baselines. Additionally, we also demonstrate that our DGTL model can offer natural language explanations for predictions, thereby significantly enhancing model interpretability.

------------

`[2311.00262] Plug-and-Play Policy Planner for Large Language Model Powered Dialogue Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00262>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:30:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Yang Deng [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 1 Nov 2023 03:20:16 UTC (191 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:30:31 UTC (196 KB)
    Yang Deng, Wenxuan Zhang, Wai Lam, See-Kiong Ng, Tat-Seng Chua

Proactive dialogues serve as a practical yet challenging dialogue problem in the era of large language models (LLMs), where the dialogue policy planning is the key to improving the proactivity of LLMs. Most existing studies enable the dialogue policy planning of LLMs using various prompting schemes or iteratively enhance this capability in handling the given case with verbal AI feedback. However, these approaches are either bounded by the policy planning capability of the frozen LLMs or hard to be transferred to new cases. In this work, we introduce a new dialogue policy planning paradigm to strategize LLMs for proactive dialogue problems with a tunable language model plug-in as a plug-and-play dialogue policy planner, named PPDPP. Specifically, we develop a novel training framework to facilitate supervised fine-tuning over available human-annotated data as well as reinforcement learning from goal-oriented AI feedback with dynamic interaction data collected by the LLM-based self-play simulation. In this manner, the LLM-powered dialogue agent can not only be generalized to different cases after the training, but also be applicable to different applications by just substituting the learned plug-in. In addition, we propose to evaluate the policy planning capability of dialogue systems under the interactive setting. Experimental results demonstrate that PPDPP consistently and substantially outperforms existing approaches on three different proactive dialogue applications, including negotiation, emotional support, and tutoring dialogues.

------------

`[2311.09533] Effective Large Language Model Adaptation for Improved Grounding and Citation Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09533>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 05:36:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Xi Ye [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 03:22:25 UTC (74 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 05:36:36 UTC (302 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 20:04:01 UTC (302 KB)
    Xi Ye, Ruoxi Sun, Sercan \"O. Arik, Tomas Pfister

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable advancements in natural language understanding and generation. However, one major issue towards their widespread deployment in the real world is that they can generate "hallucinated" answers that are not factual. Towards this end, this paper focuses on improving LLMs by grounding their responses in retrieved passages and by providing citations. We propose a new framework, AGREE, Adaptation for GRounding EnhancEment, that improves the grounding from a holistic perspective. Our framework tunes LLMs to selfground the claims in their responses and provide accurate citations to retrieved documents. This tuning on top of the pre-trained LLMs requires well-grounded responses (with citations) for paired queries, for which we introduce a method that can automatically construct such data from unlabeled queries. The selfgrounding capability of tuned LLMs further grants them a test-time adaptation (TTA) capability that can actively retrieve passages to support the claims that have not been grounded, which iteratively improves the responses of LLMs. Across five datasets and two LLMs, our results show that the proposed tuningbased AGREE framework generates superior grounded responses with more accurate citations compared to prompting-based approaches and post-hoc citing-based approaches

------------

`[2311.09889] Language Generation from Brain Recordings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09889>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:05:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Ziyi Ye [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 13:37:21 UTC (2,244 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 19 Nov 2023 15:23:17 UTC (2,244 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 25 Dec 2023 19:25:51 UTC (1,910 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 8 Mar 2024 14:23:49 UTC (3,822 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:05:21 UTC (3,944 KB)
    Ziyi Ye, Qingyao Ai, Yiqun Liu, Maarten de Rijke, Min Zhang, Christina Lioma, Tuukka Ruotsalo

Generating human language through non-invasive brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) has the potential to unlock many applications, such as serving disabled patients and improving communication. Currently, however, generating language via BCIs has been previously successful only within a classification setup for selecting pre-generated sentence continuation candidates with the most likely cortical semantic representation. Inspired by recent research that revealed associations between the brain and the large computational language models, we propose a generative language BCI that utilizes the capacity of a large language model (LLM) jointly with a semantic brain decoder to directly generate language from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) input. The proposed model can generate coherent language sequences aligned with the semantic content of visual or auditory language stimuli perceived, without prior knowledge of any pre-generated candidates. We compare the language generated from the presented model with a random control, pre-generated language selection approach, and a standard LLM, which generates common coherent text solely based on the next word likelihood according to statistical language training data. The proposed model is found to generate language that is more aligned with semantic stimulus in response to which brain input is sampled. Our findings demonstrate the potential and feasibility of employing BCIs in direct language generation.

------------

`[2312.15710] Alleviating Hallucinations of Large Language Models through Induced Hallucinations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15710>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:50:05 GMT
    Submission history From: Yue Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 25 Dec 2023 12:32:49 UTC (235 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:50:05 UTC (236 KB)
    Yue Zhang, Leyang Cui, Wei Bi, Shuming Shi

Despite their impressive capabilities, large language models (LLMs) have been observed to generate responses that include inaccurate or fabricated information, a phenomenon commonly known as ``hallucination''. In this work, we propose a simple \textit{Induce-then-Contrast} Decoding (ICD) strategy to alleviate hallucinations. We first construct a factually weak LLM by inducing hallucinations from the original LLMs. Then, we penalize these induced hallucinations during decoding to enhance the factuality of the generated content. Concretely, we determine the final next-token predictions by amplifying the predictions from the original model and downplaying the induced untruthful predictions via contrastive decoding. Experimental results on both discrimination-based and generation-based hallucination evaluation benchmarks, such as TruthfulQA and \textsc{FActScore}, demonstrate that our proposed ICD methods can effectively enhance the factuality of LLMs across various model sizes and families. For example, when equipped with ICD, Llama2-7B-Chat and Mistral-7B-Instruct achieve performance comparable to ChatGPT and GPT4 on TruthfulQA, respectively.

------------

`[2401.05507] InfiAgent-DABench: Evaluating Agents on Data Analysis Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05507>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:57:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Xueyu Hu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 10 Jan 2024 19:04:00 UTC (7,810 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 09:30:24 UTC (1,089 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:57:59 UTC (1,090 KB)
    Xueyu Hu, Ziyu Zhao, Shuang Wei, Ziwei Chai, Qianli Ma, Guoyin Wang, Xuwu Wang, Jing Su, Jingjing Xu, Ming Zhu, Yao Cheng, Jianbo Yuan, Jiwei Li, Kun Kuang, Yang Yang, Hongxia Yang, Fei Wu

In this paper, we introduce InfiAgent-DABench, the first benchmark specifically designed to evaluate LLM-based agents on data analysis tasks. These tasks require agents to end-to-end solving complex tasks by interacting with an execution environment. This benchmark contains DAEval, a dataset consisting of 257 data analysis questions derived from 52 CSV files, and an agent framework which incorporates LLMs to serve as data analysis agents for both serving and evaluation. Since data analysis questions are often open-ended and hard to evaluate without human supervision, we adopt a format-prompting technique to convert each question into a closed-form format so that they can be automatically evaluated. Our extensive benchmarking of 34 LLMs uncovers the current challenges encountered in data analysis tasks. In addition, building on top of our agent framework, we develop a specialized agent, DAAgent, which surpasses GPT-3.5 by 3.9% on DABench. Evaluation datasets and toolkits for InfiAgent-DABench are released at this https URL .

------------

`[2402.09282] Distilling Large Language Models into Tiny Models for Named Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09282>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 16:45:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Yining Huang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:10:45 UTC (3,003 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 15:01:55 UTC (1,048 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 16:45:40 UTC (454 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 24 Mar 2024 07:06:19 UTC (454 KB)
    Yining Huang

Emerging Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 have revolutionized Natural Language Processing (NLP), showing potential in traditional tasks such as Named Entity Recognition (NER). Our study explores a three-phase training strategy that harnesses GPT-4's capabilities to enhance the BERT model's performance on NER. Initially, GPT-4 annotates a subset of the CONLL2003 and additional BBC dataset without fine-tuning. We then train BERT using a mix of original and LLM-annotated data, analyzing the efficacy of LLM annotations against traditional methods. The second phase involves comparative experiments with different training regimens, assessing the synergy between distilled and original data. We observe that sequential strategies, particularly a simple mix of training first with distilled data followed by original data, significantly boost performance. In the third phase, we investigate various data blending techniques, including sigmoid and power decay functions, to optimize the training process further. Our results indicate that a strategic mix of distilled and original data markedly elevates the NER capabilities of BERT. Our approach presents a scalable methodology that reduces manual annotation costs and increases efficiency, making it especially pertinent in resource-limited and closed-network environments. The study concludes that while the 'Simple Mix' strategy yields the best results, understanding its underlying mechanisms requires further research. Future work will also focus on refining prompt designs and enhancing annotation selection processes, aiming to extend our methodology to diverse NLP tasks.

------------

`[2402.11941] Comprehensive Cognitive LLM Agent for Smartphone GUI Automation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11941>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 12:15:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Xinbei Ma [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 08:29:03 UTC (15,465 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 12:15:34 UTC (16,640 KB)
    Xinbei Ma, Zhuosheng Zhang, Hai Zhao

Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable potential as human-like autonomous language agents to interact with real-world environments, especially for graphical user interface (GUI) automation. However, those GUI agents require comprehensive cognition ability including exhaustive perception and reliable action response. We propose \underline{Co}mprehensive \underline{Co}gnitive LLM \underline{Agent}, CoCo-Agent, with two novel approaches, comprehensive environment perception (CEP) and conditional action prediction (CAP), to systematically improve the GUI automation performance. First, CEP facilitates the GUI perception through different aspects and granularity, including screenshots and complementary detailed layouts for the visual channel and historical actions for the textual channel. Second, CAP decomposes the action prediction into sub-problems: action type prediction and action target conditioned on the action type. With our technical design, our agent achieves new state-of-the-art performance on AITW and META-GUI benchmarks, showing promising abilities in realistic scenarios. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.12749] Me LLaMA: Foundation Large Language Models for Medical Applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12749>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 04:04:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Qianqian Xie [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 06:37:31 UTC (793 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 04:04:59 UTC (860 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 16:13:36 UTC (860 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 11 Apr 2024 16:42:55 UTC (1,420 KB)
    Qianqian Xie, Qingyu Chen, Aokun Chen, Cheng Peng, Yan Hu, Fongci Lin, Xueqing Peng, Jimin Huang, Jeffrey Zhang, Vipina Keloth, Xingyu Zhou, Huan He, Lucila Ohno-Machido, Yonghui Wu, Hua Xu, Jiang Bian

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and LLaMA have hinted at their potential to revolutionize medical applications, yet their application in clinical settings often reveals limitations due to a lack of specialized training on medical-specific data. In response to this challenge, this study introduces Me-LLaMA, a novel medical LLM family that includes foundation models - Me-LLaMA 13/70B, along with their chat-enhanced versions - Me-LLaMA 13/70B-chat, developed through continual pre-training and instruction tuning of LLaMA2 using large medical datasets. Our methodology leverages a comprehensive domain-specific data suite, including a large-scale, continual pre-training dataset with 129B tokens, an instruction tuning dataset with 214k samples, and a new medical evaluation benchmark (MIBE) across six critical medical tasks with 12 datasets. Our extensive evaluation using the MIBE shows that Me-LLaMA models achieve overall better performance than existing open-source medical LLMs in zero-shot, few-shot and supervised learning abilities. With task-specific instruction tuning, Me-LLaMA models outperform ChatGPT on 7 out of 8 datasets and GPT-4 on 5 out of 8 datasets. In addition, we investigated the catastrophic forgetting problem, and our results show that Me-LLaMA models outperform other open-source medical LLMs in mitigating this issue. Me-LLaMA is one of the largest open-source medical foundation LLMs that use both biomedical and clinical data. It exhibits superior performance across both general and medical tasks compared to other open-source medical LLMs, rendering it an attractive choice for medical AI applications. We release our models, datasets, and evaluation scripts at: this https URL.

------------

`[2402.14702] InfFeed: Influence Functions as a Feedback to Improve the Performance of Subjective Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14702>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 19:13:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Somnath Banerjee [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 16:59:09 UTC (7,128 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 19:13:54 UTC (265 KB)
    Somnath Banerjee, Maulindu Sarkar, Punyajoy Saha, Binny Mathew, Animesh Mukherjee

Recently, influence functions present an apparatus for achieving explainability for deep neural models by quantifying the perturbation of individual train instances that might impact a test prediction. Our objectives in this paper are twofold. First we incorporate influence functions as a feedback into the model to improve its performance. Second, in a dataset extension exercise, using influence functions to automatically identify data points that have been initially `silver' annotated by some existing method and need to be cross-checked (and corrected) by annotators to improve the model performance. To meet these objectives, in this paper, we introduce InfFeed, which uses influence functions to compute the influential instances for a target instance. Toward the first objective, we adjust the label of the target instance based on its influencer(s) label. In doing this, InfFeed outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines (including LLMs) by a maximum macro F1-score margin of almost 4% for hate speech classification, 3.5% for stance classification, and 3% for irony and 2% for sarcasm detection. Toward the second objective we show that manually re-annotating only those silver annotated data points in the extension set that have a negative influence can immensely improve the model performance bringing it very close to the scenario where all the data points in the extension set have gold labels. This allows for huge reduction of the number of data points that need to be manually annotated since out of the silver annotated extension dataset, the influence function scheme picks up ~1/1000 points that need manual correction.

------------

`[2402.16159] DistALANER: Distantly Supervised Active Learning Augmented Named Entity Recognition in the Open Source Software Ecosystem <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16159>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:11:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Somnath Banerjee [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 17:40:49 UTC (9,323 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:11:08 UTC (2,142 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 18:29:52 UTC (2,142 KB)
    Somnath Banerjee, Avik Dutta, Aaditya Agrawal, Rima Hazra, Animesh Mukherjee

With the AI revolution in place, the trend for building automated systems to support professionals in different domains such as the open source software systems, healthcare systems, banking systems, transportation systems and many others have become increasingly prominent. A crucial requirement in the automation of support tools for such systems is the early identification of named entities, which serves as a foundation for developing specialized functionalities. However, due to the specific nature of each domain, different technical terminologies and specialized languages, expert annotation of available data becomes expensive and challenging. In light of these challenges, this paper proposes a novel named entity recognition (NER) technique specifically tailored for the open-source software systems. Our approach aims to address the scarcity of annotated software data by employing a comprehensive two-step distantly supervised annotation process. This process strategically leverages language heuristics, unique lookup tables, external knowledge sources, and an active learning approach. By harnessing these powerful techniques, we not only enhance model performance but also effectively mitigate the limitations associated with cost and the scarcity of expert annotators. It is noteworthy that our model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art LLMs by a substantial margin. We also show the effectiveness of NER in the downstream task of relation extraction.

------------

`[2402.16363] LLM Inference Unveiled: Survey and Roofline Model Insights <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16363>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:46:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhihang Yuan [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 07:33:05 UTC (1,366 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 08:36:42 UTC (1,264 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 17:08:51 UTC (1,458 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 17:46:49 UTC (1,639 KB)
    [v5] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 01:58:58 UTC (1,642 KB)
    Zhihang Yuan, Yuzhang Shang, Yang Zhou, Zhen Dong, Zhe Zhou, Chenhao Xue, Bingzhe Wu, Zhikai Li, Qingyi Gu, Yong Jae Lee, Yan Yan, Beidi Chen, Guangyu Sun, Kurt Keutzer

The field of efficient Large Language Model (LLM) inference is rapidly evolving, presenting a unique blend of opportunities and challenges. Although the field has expanded and is vibrant, there hasn't been a concise framework that analyzes the various methods of LLM Inference to provide a clear understanding of this domain. Our survey stands out from traditional literature reviews by not only summarizing the current state of research but also by introducing a framework based on roofline model for systematic analysis of LLM inference techniques. This framework identifies the bottlenecks when deploying LLMs on hardware devices and provides a clear understanding of practical problems, such as why LLMs are memory-bound, how much memory and computation they need, and how to choose the right hardware. We systematically collate the latest advancements in efficient LLM inference, covering crucial areas such as model compression (e.g., Knowledge Distillation and Quantization), algorithm improvements (e.g., Early Exit and Mixture-of-Expert), and both hardware and system-level enhancements. Our survey stands out by analyzing these methods with roofline model, helping us understand their impact on memory access and computation. This distinctive approach not only showcases the current research landscape but also delivers valuable insights for practical implementation, positioning our work as an indispensable resource for researchers new to the field as well as for those seeking to deepen their understanding of efficient LLM deployment. The analyze tool, LLM-Viewer, is open-sourced.

------------

`[2402.16827] A Survey on Data Selection for Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16827>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 8 Mar 2024 20:04:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Alon Albalak [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 18:54:35 UTC (1,308 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 8 Mar 2024 20:04:01 UTC (1,764 KB)
    Alon Albalak, Yanai Elazar, Sang Michael Xie, Shayne Longpre, Nathan Lambert, Xinyi Wang, Niklas Muennighoff, Bairu Hou, Liangming Pan, Haewon Jeong, Colin Raffel, Shiyu Chang, Tatsunori Hashimoto, William Yang Wang

A major factor in the recent success of large language models is the use of enormous and ever-growing text datasets for unsupervised pre-training. However, naively training a model on all available data may not be optimal (or feasible), as the quality of available text data can vary. Filtering out data can also decrease the carbon footprint and financial costs of training models by reducing the amount of training required. Data selection methods aim to determine which candidate data points to include in the training dataset and how to appropriately sample from the selected data points. The promise of improved data selection methods has caused the volume of research in the area to rapidly expand. However, because deep learning is mostly driven by empirical evidence and experimentation on large-scale data is expensive, few organizations have the resources for extensive data selection research. Consequently, knowledge of effective data selection practices has become concentrated within a few organizations, many of which do not openly share their findings and methodologies. To narrow this gap in knowledge, we present a comprehensive review of existing literature on data selection methods and related research areas, providing a taxonomy of existing approaches. By describing the current landscape of research, this work aims to accelerate progress in data selection by establishing an entry point for new and established researchers. Additionally, throughout this review we draw attention to noticeable holes in the literature and conclude the paper by proposing promising avenues for future research.

------------

`[2403.03102] "In Dialogues We Learn": Towards Personalized Dialogue Without Pre-defined Profiles through In-Dialogue Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03102>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:25:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Chuanqi Cheng [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 16:43:03 UTC (11,338 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:25:48 UTC (11,338 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 05:33:16 UTC (11,338 KB)
    Chuanqi Cheng, Quan Tu, Wei Wu, Shuo Shang, Cunli Mao, Zhengtao Yu, Rui Yan

Personalized dialogue systems have gained significant attention in recent years for their ability to generate responses in alignment with different personas. However, most existing approaches rely on pre-defined personal profiles, which are not only time-consuming and labor-intensive to create but also lack flexibility. We propose In-Dialogue Learning (IDL), a fine-tuning framework that enhances the ability of pre-trained large language models to leverage dialogue history to characterize persona for completing personalized dialogue generation tasks without pre-defined profiles. Our experiments on three datasets demonstrate that IDL brings substantial improvements, with BLEU and ROUGE scores increasing by up to 200% and 247%, respectively. Additionally, the results of human evaluations further validate the efficacy of our proposed method.

------------

`[2403.03640] Apollo: An Lightweight Multilingual Medical LLM towards Democratizing Medical AI to 6B People <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03640>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 13:02:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Xidong Wang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 6 Mar 2024 11:56:02 UTC (14,155 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 13:02:11 UTC (14,155 KB)
    Xidong Wang, Nuo Chen, Junyin Chen, Yan Hu, Yidong Wang, Xiangbo Wu, Anningzhe Gao, Xiang Wan, Haizhou Li, Benyou Wang

Despite the vast repository of global medical knowledge predominantly being in English, local languages are crucial for delivering tailored healthcare services, particularly in areas with limited medical resources. To extend the reach of medical AI advancements to a broader population, we aim to develop medical LLMs across the six most widely spoken languages, encompassing a global population of 6.1 billion. This effort culminates in the creation of the ApolloCorpora multilingual medical dataset and the XMedBench benchmark. In the multilingual medical benchmark, the released Apollo models, at various relatively-small sizes (i.e., 0.5B, 1.8B, 2B, 6B, and 7B), achieve the best performance among models of equivalent size. Especially, Apollo-7B is the state-of-the-art multilingual medical LLMs up to 70B. Additionally, these lite models could be used to improve the multi-lingual medical capabilities of larger models without fine-tuning in a proxy-tuning fashion. We will open-source training corpora, code, model weights and evaluation benchmark.

------------

`[2403.04224] Aligners: Decoupling LLMs and Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04224>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:04:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Lilian Ngweta [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 7 Mar 2024 04:54:56 UTC (1,033 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 07:04:42 UTC (1,034 KB)
    Lilian Ngweta, Mayank Agarwal, Subha Maity, Alex Gittens, Yuekai Sun, Mikhail Yurochkin

Large Language Models (LLMs) need to be aligned with human expectations to ensure their safety and utility in most applications. Alignment is challenging, costly, and needs to be repeated for every LLM and alignment criterion. We propose to decouple LLMs and alignment by training aligner models that can be used to align any LLM for a given criteria on an as-needed basis, thus also reducing the potential negative impacts of alignment on performance. Our recipe for training the aligner models solely relies on synthetic data generated with a (prompted) LLM and can be easily adjusted for a variety of alignment criteria. We illustrate our method by training an "ethical" aligner and verify its efficacy empirically.

------------

`[2305.17126] Large Language Models as Tool Makers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17126>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 01:15:09 GMT
    Submission history From: Tianle Cai [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 26 May 2023 17:50:11 UTC (1,248 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 01:15:09 UTC (1,093 KB)
    Tianle Cai, Xuezhi Wang, Tengyu Ma, Xinyun Chen, Denny Zhou

Recent research has highlighted the potential of large language models (LLMs) to improve their problem-solving capabilities with the aid of suitable external tools. In our work, we further advance this concept by introducing a closed-loop framework, referred to as LLMs A s Tool Makers (LATM), where LLMs create their own reusable tools for problem-solving. Our approach consists of two phases: 1) tool making: an LLM acts as the tool maker that crafts tools for a set of tasks. 2) tool using: another LLM acts as the tool user, which applies the tool built by the tool maker for problem-solving. On the problem-solving server side, tool-making enables continual tool generation and caching as new requests emerge. This framework enables subsequent requests to access cached tools via their corresponding APIs, enhancing the efficiency of task resolution. Recognizing that tool-making requires more sophisticated capabilities, we assign this task to a powerful, albeit resource-intensive, model. Conversely, the simpler tool-using phase is delegated to a lightweight model. This strategic division of labor allows the once-off cost of tool-making to be spread over multiple instances of tool-using, significantly reducing average costs while maintaining strong performance. Furthermore, our method offers a functional cache through the caching and reuse of tools, which stores the functionality of a class of requests instead of the natural language responses from LLMs, thus extending the applicability of the conventional cache mechanism. We evaluate our approach across various complex reasoning tasks, including Big-Bench tasks. With GPT-4 as the tool maker and GPT-3.5 as the tool user, LATM demonstrates performance equivalent to using GPT-4 for both roles, but with a significantly reduced inference cost.

------------

`[2307.06148] NetGPT: A Native-AI Network Architecture Beyond Provisioning Personalized Generative Services <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.06148>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 04:24:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuxuan Chen [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 12 Jul 2023 13:10:08 UTC (2,190 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 23 Jul 2023 08:02:30 UTC (2,187 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 18 Dec 2023 07:40:46 UTC (4,304 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 04:24:21 UTC (4,304 KB)
    Yuxuan Chen, Rongpeng Li, Zhifeng Zhao, Chenghui Peng, Jianjun Wu, Ekram Hossain, and Honggang Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) have triggered tremendous success to empower our daily life by generative information. The personalization of LLMs could further contribute to their applications due to better alignment with human intents. Towards personalized generative services, a collaborative cloud-edge methodology is promising, as it facilitates the effective orchestration of heterogeneous distributed communication and computing resources. In this article, we put forward NetGPT to capably synergize appropriate LLMs at the edge and the cloud based on their computing capacity. In addition, edge LLMs could efficiently leverage location-based information for personalized prompt completion, thus benefiting the interaction with the cloud LLM. In particular, we present the feasibility of NetGPT by leveraging low-rank adaptation-based fine-tuning of open-source LLMs (i.e., GPT-2-base model and LLaMA model), and conduct comprehensive numerical comparisons with alternative cloud-edge collaboration or cloud-only techniques, so as to demonstrate the superiority of NetGPT. Subsequently, we highlight the essential changes required for an artificial intelligence (AI)-native network architecture towards NetGPT, with emphasis on deeper integration of communications and computing resources and careful calibration of logical AI workflow. Furthermore, we demonstrate several benefits of NetGPT, which come as by-products, as the edge LLMs' capability to predict trends and infer intents promises a unified solution for intelligent network management & orchestration. We argue that NetGPT is a promising AI-native network architecture for provisioning beyond personalized generative services.

------------

`[2307.09423] Scaling Laws for Imitation Learning in Single-Agent Games <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09423>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 14:50:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Jens Tuyls [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 18 Jul 2023 16:43:03 UTC (223 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 14:50:52 UTC (694 KB)
    Jens Tuyls, Dhruv Madeka, Kari Torkkola, Dean Foster, Karthik Narasimhan, Sham Kakade

Imitation Learning (IL) is one of the most widely used methods in machine learning. Yet, many works find it is often unable to fully recover the underlying expert behavior, even in constrained environments like single-agent games. However, none of these works deeply investigate the role of scaling up the model and data size. Inspired by recent work in Natural Language Processing (NLP) where "scaling up" has resulted in increasingly more capable LLMs, we investigate whether carefully scaling up model and data size can bring similar improvements in the imitation learning setting for single-agent games. We first demonstrate our findings on a variety of Atari games, and thereafter focus on the extremely challenging game of NetHack. In all games, we find that IL loss and mean return scale smoothly with the compute budget (FLOPs) and are strongly correlated, resulting in power laws for training compute-optimal IL agents. Finally, we forecast and train several NetHack agents with IL and find they outperform prior state-of-the-art by 1.5x in all settings. Our work both demonstrates the scaling behavior of imitation learning in a variety of single-agent games, as well as the viability of scaling up current approaches for increasingly capable agents in NetHack, a game that remains elusively hard for current AI systems.

------------

`[2309.16119] ModuLoRA: Finetuning 2-Bit LLMs on Consumer GPUs by Integrating with Modular Quantizers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16119>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 03:24:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Junjie Yin [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Sep 2023 02:55:01 UTC (7,143 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 03:24:06 UTC (7,136 KB)
    Junjie Yin, Jiahao Dong, Yingheng Wang, Christopher De Sa, Volodymyr Kuleshov

We propose a memory-efficient finetuning algorithm for large language models (LLMs) that supports finetuning LLMs with 65B parameters in 2/3/4-bit precision on as little as one 24GB GPU. Our method, modular low-rank adaptation (ModuLoRA), integrates any user-specified weight quantizer with finetuning via low-rank adapters (LoRAs). Our approach relies on a simple quantization-agnostic backward pass that adaptively materializes low-precision LLM weights from a custom black-box quantization module. This approach enables finetuning 2-bit and 3-bit LLMs for the first time -- leveraging state-of-the-art 2-bit QuIP\# quantization and 3-bit OPTQ quantization -- outperforming finetuning that relies on less sophisticated 4-bit and 8-bit methods. In our experiments, \lplora~attains competitive performance on text classification, natural language inference, and instruction following tasks using significantly less memory than existing approaches, and we also surpass the state-of-the-art ROUGE score on a popular summarization task. We release \lplora~together with a series of low-precision models as part of \llmtune, a user-friendly library for quantizing, running, and finetuning LLMs on consumer GPUs.

------------

`[2310.01714] Large Language Models as Analogical Reasoners <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01714>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 05:54:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Michihiro Yasunaga [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 00:57:26 UTC (300 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 7 Oct 2023 06:05:46 UTC (300 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 05:54:39 UTC (303 KB)
    Michihiro Yasunaga, Xinyun Chen, Yujia Li, Panupong Pasupat, Jure Leskovec, Percy Liang, Ed H. Chi, Denny Zhou

Chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting for language models demonstrates impressive performance across reasoning tasks, but typically needs labeled exemplars of the reasoning process. In this work, we introduce a new prompting approach, analogical prompting, designed to automatically guide the reasoning process of large language models. Inspired by analogical reasoning, a cognitive process in which humans draw from relevant past experiences to tackle new problems, our approach prompts language models to self-generate relevant exemplars or knowledge in the context, before proceeding to solve the given problem. This method presents several advantages: it obviates the need for labeling or retrieving exemplars, offering generality and convenience; it can also tailor the generated exemplars and knowledge to each problem, offering adaptability. Experimental results show that our approach outperforms 0-shot CoT and manual few-shot CoT in a variety of reasoning tasks, including math problem solving in GSM8K and MATH, code generation in Codeforces, and other reasoning tasks in BIG-Bench.

------------

`[2310.02743] Reward Model Ensembles Help Mitigate Overoptimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02743>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 16:14:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Thomas Coste [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 11:34:22 UTC (6,298 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 16:14:58 UTC (7,997 KB)
    Thomas Coste, Usman Anwar, Robert Kirk, David Krueger

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a standard approach for fine-tuning large language models to follow instructions. As part of this process, learned reward models are used to approximately model human preferences. However, as imperfect representations of the "true" reward, these learned reward models are susceptible to overoptimization. Gao et al. (2023) studied this phenomenon in a synthetic human feedback setup with a significantly larger "gold" reward model acting as the true reward (instead of humans) and showed that overoptimization remains a persistent problem regardless of the size of the proxy reward model and training data used. Using a similar setup, we conduct a systematic study to evaluate the efficacy of using ensemble-based conservative optimization objectives, specifically worst-case optimization (WCO) and uncertainty-weighted optimization (UWO), for mitigating reward model overoptimization when using two optimization methods: (a) best-of-n sampling (BoN) (b) proximal policy optimization (PPO). We additionally extend the setup of Gao et al. (2023) to include 25% label noise to better mirror real-world conditions. Both with and without label noise, we find that conservative optimization practically eliminates overoptimization and improves performance by up to 70% for BoN sampling. For PPO, ensemble-based conservative optimization always reduces overoptimization and outperforms single reward model optimization. Moreover, combining it with a small KL penalty successfully prevents overoptimization at no performance cost. Overall, our results demonstrate that ensemble-based conservative optimization can effectively counter overoptimization.

------------

`[2310.06282] MuseChat: A Conversational Music Recommendation System for Videos <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06282>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 18:28:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhikang Dong [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 03:32:33 UTC (10,495 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 11 Oct 2023 02:46:12 UTC (10,495 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 1 Dec 2023 00:55:13 UTC (39,503 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 18:28:34 UTC (39,503 KB)
    Zhikang Dong, Bin Chen, Xiulong Liu, Pawel Polak, Peng Zhang

Music recommendation for videos attracts growing interest in multi-modal research. However, existing systems focus primarily on content compatibility, often ignoring the users' preferences. Their inability to interact with users for further refinements or to provide explanations leads to a less satisfying experience. We address these issues with MuseChat, a first-of-its-kind dialogue-based recommendation system that personalizes music suggestions for videos. Our system consists of two key functionalities with associated modules: recommendation and reasoning. The recommendation module takes a video along with optional information including previous suggested music and user's preference as inputs and retrieves an appropriate music matching the context. The reasoning module, equipped with the power of Large Language Model (Vicuna-7B) and extended to multi-modal inputs, is able to provide reasonable explanation for the recommended music. To evaluate the effectiveness of MuseChat, we build a large-scale dataset, conversational music recommendation for videos, that simulates a two-turn interaction between a user and a recommender based on accurate music track information. Experiment results show that MuseChat achieves significant improvements over existing video-based music retrieval methods as well as offers strong interpretability and interactability.

------------

`[2310.10207] Bongard-OpenWorld: Few-Shot Reasoning for Free-form Visual Concepts in the Real World <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10207>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 02:37:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Rujie Wu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 09:19:18 UTC (33,182 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 13:20:10 UTC (35,980 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 02:37:36 UTC (35,980 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 10:57:49 UTC (35,980 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 18 Mar 2024 09:05:12 UTC (35,980 KB)
    Rujie Wu, Xiaojian Ma, Zhenliang Zhang, Wei Wang, Qing Li, Song-Chun Zhu, Yizhou Wang

We introduce Bongard-OpenWorld, a new benchmark for evaluating real-world few-shot reasoning for machine vision. It originates from the classical Bongard Problems (BPs): Given two sets of images (positive and negative), the model needs to identify the set that query images belong to by inducing the visual concepts, which is exclusively depicted by images from the positive set. Our benchmark inherits the few-shot concept induction of the original BPs while adding the two novel layers of challenge: 1) open-world free-form concepts, as the visual concepts in Bongard-OpenWorld are unique compositions of terms from an open vocabulary, ranging from object categories to abstract visual attributes and commonsense factual knowledge; 2) real-world images, as opposed to the synthetic diagrams used by many counterparts. In our exploration, Bongard-OpenWorld already imposes a significant challenge to current few-shot reasoning algorithms. We further investigate to which extent the recently introduced Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision-Language Models (VLMs) can solve our task, by directly probing VLMs, and combining VLMs and LLMs in an interactive reasoning scheme. We even conceived a neuro-symbolic reasoning approach that reconciles LLMs & VLMs with logical reasoning to emulate the human problem-solving process for Bongard Problems. However, none of these approaches manage to close the human-machine gap, as the best learner achieves 64% accuracy while human participants easily reach 91%. We hope Bongard-OpenWorld can help us better understand the limitations of current visual intelligence and facilitate future research on visual agents with stronger few-shot visual reasoning capabilities.

------------

`[2401.14151] True Knowledge Comes from Practice: Aligning LLMs with Embodied Environments via Reinforcement Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14151>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 03:15:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Weihao Tan [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 25 Jan 2024 13:03:20 UTC (31,930 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 03:15:58 UTC (31,930 KB)
    Weihao Tan, Wentao Zhang, Shanqi Liu, Longtao Zheng, Xinrun Wang, Bo An

Despite the impressive performance across numerous tasks, large language models (LLMs) often fail in solving simple decision-making tasks due to the misalignment of the knowledge in LLMs with environments. On the contrary, reinforcement learning (RL) agents learn policies from scratch, which makes them always align with environments but difficult to incorporate prior knowledge for efficient explorations. To narrow the gap, we propose TWOSOME, a novel general online framework that deploys LLMs as decision-making agents to efficiently interact and align with embodied environments via RL without requiring any prepared datasets or prior knowledge of the environments. Firstly, we query the joint probabilities of each valid action with LLMs to form behavior policies. Then, to enhance the stability and robustness of the policies, we propose two normalization methods and summarize four prompt design principles. Finally, we design a novel parameter-efficient training architecture where the actor and critic share one frozen LLM equipped with low-rank adapters (LoRA) updated by PPO. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate TWOSOME. i) TWOSOME exhibits significantly better sample efficiency and performance compared to the conventional RL method, PPO, and prompt tuning method, SayCan, in both classical decision-making environment, Overcooked, and simulated household environment, VirtualHome. ii) Benefiting from LLMs' open-vocabulary feature, TWOSOME shows superior generalization ability to unseen tasks. iii) Under our framework, there is no significant loss of the LLMs' original ability during online PPO finetuning.

------------

`[2401.17505] Arrows of Time for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17505>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 14:33:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Vassilis Papadopoulos [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 23:46:35 UTC (1,422 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 14:33:49 UTC (1,423 KB)
    Vassilis Papadopoulos, J\'er\'emie Wenger, Cl\'ement Hongler

We study the probabilistic modeling performed by Autoregressive Large Language Models through the angle of time directionality. We empirically find a time asymmetry exhibited by such models in their ability to model natural language: a difference in the average log-perplexity when trying to predict the next token versus when trying to predict the previous one. This difference is at the same time subtle and very consistent across various modalities (language, model size, training time, ...). Theoretically, this is surprising: from an information-theoretic point of view, there should be no such difference. We provide a theoretical framework to explain how such an asymmetry can appear from sparsity and computational complexity considerations, and outline a number of perspectives opened by our results.

------------

`[2402.04852] Multi-Patch Prediction: Adapting LLMs for Time Series Representation Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04852>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 01:53:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuxuan Bian [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 13:51:26 UTC (1,967 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 01:53:40 UTC (8,368 KB)
    Yuxuan Bian, Xuan Ju, Jiangtong Li, Zhijian Xu, Dawei Cheng, Qiang Xu

In this study, we present aLLM4TS, an innovative framework that adapts Large Language Models (LLMs) for time-series representation learning. Central to our approach is that we reconceive time-series forecasting as a self-supervised, multi-patch prediction task, which, compared to traditional contrastive learning or mask-and-reconstruction methods, captures temporal dynamics in patch representations more effectively. Our strategy encompasses two-stage training: (i). a causal continual pre-training phase on various time-series datasets, anchored on next patch prediction, effectively syncing LLM capabilities with the intricacies of time-series data; (ii). fine-tuning for multi-patch prediction in the targeted time-series context. A distinctive element of our framework is the patch-wise decoding layer, which departs from previous methods reliant on sequence-level decoding. Such a design directly transposes individual patches into temporal sequences, thereby significantly bolstering the model's proficiency in mastering temporal patch-based representations. aLLM4TS demonstrates superior performance in several downstream tasks, proving its effectiveness in deriving temporal representations with enhanced transferability and marking a pivotal advancement in the adaptation of LLMs for time-series analysis.

------------

`[2403.00858] Direct Alignment of Draft Model for Speculative Decoding with Chat-Fine-Tuned LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00858>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 8 Mar 2024 23:23:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Raghavv Goel Mr. [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 19:55:06 UTC (865 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 7 Mar 2024 06:37:44 UTC (939 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 8 Mar 2024 23:23:48 UTC (939 KB)
    Raghavv Goel, Mukul Gagrani, Wonseok Jeon, Junyoung Park, Mingu Lee, Christopher Lott

Text generation with Large Language Models (LLMs) is known to be memory bound due to the combination of their auto-regressive nature, huge parameter counts, and limited memory bandwidths, often resulting in low token rates. Speculative decoding has been proposed as a solution for LLM inference acceleration. However, since draft models are often unavailable in the modern open-source LLM families, e.g., for Llama 2 7B, training a high-quality draft model is required to enable inference acceleration via speculative decoding. In this paper, we propose a simple draft model training framework for direct alignment to chat-capable target models. With the proposed framework, we train Llama 2 Chat Drafter 115M, a draft model for Llama 2 Chat 7B or larger, with only 1.64\% of the original size. Our training framework only consists of pretraining, distillation dataset generation, and finetuning with knowledge distillation, with no additional alignment procedure. For the finetuning step, we use instruction-response pairs generated by target model for distillation in plausible data distribution, and propose a new Total Variation Distance++ (TVD++) loss that incorporates variance reduction techniques inspired from the policy gradient method in reinforcement learning. Our empirical results show that Llama 2 Chat Drafter 115M with speculative decoding achieves up to 2.3 block efficiency and 2.4$\times$ speed-up relative to autoregressive decoding on various tasks with no further task-specific fine-tuning.

------------

`[2305.13860] Jailbreaking ChatGPT via Prompt Engineering: An Empirical Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13860>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:58:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Yi Liu [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 May 2023 09:33:38 UTC (460 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 13:58:08 UTC (460 KB)
    Yi Liu, Gelei Deng, Zhengzi Xu, Yuekang Li, Yaowen Zheng, Ying Zhang, Lida Zhao, Tianwei Zhang, Kailong Wang and Yang Liu

Large Language Models (LLMs), like ChatGPT, have demonstrated vast potential but also introduce challenges related to content constraints and potential misuse. Our study investigates three key research questions: (1) the number of different prompt types that can jailbreak LLMs, (2) the effectiveness of jailbreak prompts in circumventing LLM constraints, and (3) the resilience of ChatGPT against these jailbreak prompts. Initially, we develop a classification model to analyze the distribution of existing prompts, identifying ten distinct patterns and three categories of jailbreak prompts. Subsequently, we assess the jailbreak capability of prompts with ChatGPT versions 3.5 and 4.0, utilizing a dataset of 3,120 jailbreak questions across eight prohibited scenarios. Finally, we evaluate the resistance of ChatGPT against jailbreak prompts, finding that the prompts can consistently evade the restrictions in 40 use-case scenarios. The study underscores the importance of prompt structures in jailbreaking LLMs and discusses the challenges of robust jailbreak prompt generation and prevention.

------------

`[2308.10620] Large Language Models for Software Engineering: A Systematic Literature Review <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.10620>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:28:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Yanjie Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 21 Aug 2023 10:37:49 UTC (817 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 28 Aug 2023 06:07:02 UTC (1,088 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 3 Sep 2023 14:27:40 UTC (1,490 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 12 Sep 2023 11:55:53 UTC (1,489 KB)
    [v5] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:28:33 UTC (1,489 KB)
    [v6] Wed, 10 Apr 2024 08:41:22 UTC (1,703 KB)
    Xinyi Hou, Yanjie Zhao, Yue Liu, Zhou Yang, Kailong Wang, Li Li, Xiapu Luo, David Lo, John Grundy, Haoyu Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly impacted numerous domains, including Software Engineering (SE). Many recent publications have explored LLMs applied to various SE tasks. Nevertheless, a comprehensive understanding of the application, effects, and possible limitations of LLMs on SE is still in its early stages. To bridge this gap, we conducted a systematic literature review (SLR) on LLM4SE, with a particular focus on understanding how LLMs can be exploited to optimize processes and outcomes. We select and analyze 395 research papers from January 2017 to January 2024 to answer four key research questions (RQs). In RQ1, we categorize different LLMs that have been employed in SE tasks, characterizing their distinctive features and uses. In RQ2, we analyze the methods used in data collection, preprocessing, and application, highlighting the role of well-curated datasets for successful LLM for SE implementation. RQ3 investigates the strategies employed to optimize and evaluate the performance of LLMs in SE. Finally, RQ4 examines the specific SE tasks where LLMs have shown success to date, illustrating their practical contributions to the field. From the answers to these RQs, we discuss the current state-of-the-art and trends, identifying gaps in existing research, and flagging promising areas for future study. Our artifacts are publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.03976] From Text to Self: Users' Perceptions of Potential of AI on Interpersonal Communication and Self <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03976>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 01:19:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Yue Fu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 6 Oct 2023 02:19:10 UTC (4,436 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 22:35:04 UTC (9,928 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 01:19:41 UTC (10,785 KB)
    Yue Fu, Sami Foell, Xuhai Xu, Alexis Hiniker

In the rapidly evolving landscape of AI-mediated communication (AIMC), tools powered by Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming integral to interpersonal communication. Employing a mixed-methods approach, we conducted a one-week diary and interview study to explore users' perceptions of these tools' ability to: 1) support interpersonal communication in the short-term, and 2) lead to potential long-term effects. Our findings indicate that participants view AIMC support favorably, citing benefits such as increased communication confidence, and finding precise language to express their thoughts, navigating linguistic and cultural barriers. However, the study also uncovers current limitations of AIMC tools, including verbosity, unnatural responses, and excessive emotional intensity. These shortcomings are further exacerbated by user concerns about inauthenticity and potential overreliance on the technology. Furthermore, we identified four key communication spaces delineated by communication stakes (high or low) and relationship dynamics (formal or informal) that differentially predict users' attitudes toward AIMC tools. Specifically, participants found the tool is more suitable for communicating in formal relationships than informal ones and more beneficial in high-stakes than low-stakes communication.

------------

`[2312.05626] Redefining Developer Assistance: Through Large Language Models in Software Ecosystem <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05626>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 18:34:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Somnath Banerjee [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 9 Dec 2023 18:02:37 UTC (2,097 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 18:34:43 UTC (1,093 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 18:23:12 UTC (1,093 KB)
    Somnath Banerjee, Avik Dutta, Sayan Layek, Amruit Sahoo, Sam Conrad Joyce, Rima Hazra

In this paper, we delve into the advancement of domain-specific Large Language Models (LLMs) with a focus on their application in software development. We introduce DevAssistLlama, a model developed through instruction tuning, to assist developers in processing software-related natural language queries. This model, a variant of instruction tuned LLM, is particularly adept at handling intricate technical documentation, enhancing developer capability in software specific tasks. The creation of DevAssistLlama involved constructing an extensive instruction dataset from various software systems, enabling effective handling of Named Entity Recognition (NER), Relation Extraction (RE), and Link Prediction (LP). Our results demonstrate DevAssistLlama's superior capabilities in these tasks, in comparison with other models including ChatGPT. This research not only highlights the potential of specialized LLMs in software development also the pioneer LLM for this domain.

------------

`[2401.07348] Generative AI in EU Law: Liability, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Cybersecurity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07348>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:35:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Philipp Hacker [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 14 Jan 2024 19:16:29 UTC (573 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 18:10:28 UTC (504 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 11:35:22 UTC (381 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 17:10:29 UTC (411 KB)
    Claudio Novelli, Federico Casolari, Philipp Hacker, Giorgio Spedicato, Luciano Floridi

The advent of Generative AI, particularly through Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and its successors, marks a paradigm shift in the AI landscape. Advanced LLMs exhibit multimodality, handling diverse data formats, thereby broadening their application scope. However, the complexity and emergent autonomy of these models introduce challenges in predictability and legal compliance. This paper delves into the legal and regulatory implications of Generative AI and LLMs in the European Union context, analyzing aspects of liability, privacy, intellectual property, and cybersecurity. It critically examines the adequacy of the existing and proposed EU legislation, including the Artificial Intelligence Act (AIA) draft, in addressing the unique challenges posed by Generative AI in general and LLMs in particular. The paper identifies potential gaps and shortcomings in the legislative framework and proposes recommendations to ensure the safe and compliant deployment of generative models, ensuring they align with the EU's evolving digital landscape and legal standards.

------------

`[2402.16906] LDB: A Large Language Model Debugger via Verifying Runtime Execution Step-by-step <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16906>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:16:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Li Zhong [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 00:56:27 UTC (782 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 00:04:53 UTC (782 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:16:01 UTC (782 KB)
    Lily Zhong, Zilong Wang, Jingbo Shang

Large language models (LLMs) are leading significant progress in code generation. Beyond one-pass code generation, recent works further integrate unit tests and program verifiers into LLMs to iteratively refine the generated programs. However, these works consider the generated programs as an indivisible entity, which falls short for LLMs in debugging the programs, especially when the programs contain complex logic flows and data operations. In contrast, when human developers debug programs, they typically set breakpoints and selectively examine runtime execution information. The execution flow and the intermediate variables play a crucial role in the debugging process, yet they are underutilized in the existing literature on code generation. In this study, we introduce Large Language Model Debugger (LDB), a novel debugging framework that enables LLMs to refine their generated programs with the runtime execution information. Specifically, LDB segments the programs into basic blocks and tracks the values of intermediate variables after each block throughout the runtime execution. This allows LLMs to concentrate on simpler code units within the overall execution flow, verify their correctness against the task description block by block, and efficiently pinpoint any potential errors. Experiments demonstrate that LDB consistently enhances the baseline performance by up to 9.8% across the HumanEval, MBPP, and TransCoder benchmarks, archiving new state-of-the-art performance in code debugging for various LLM selections.

------------

`[2403.01437] GPTSee: Enhancing Moment Retrieval and Highlight Detection via Description-Based Similarity Features <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01437>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 09:56:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Yifang Xu [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 08:24:28 UTC (923 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 09:56:22 UTC (923 KB)
    Yunzhuo Sun, Yifang Xu, Zien Xie, Yukun Shu, and Sidan Du

Moment retrieval (MR) and highlight detection (HD) aim to identify relevant moments and highlights in video from corresponding natural language query. Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated proficiency in various computer vision tasks. However, existing methods for MR\&HD have not yet been integrated with LLMs. In this letter, we propose a novel two-stage model that takes the output of LLMs as the input to the second-stage transformer encoder-decoder. First, MiniGPT-4 is employed to generate the detailed description of the video frame and rewrite the query statement, fed into the encoder as new features. Then, semantic similarity is computed between the generated description and the rewritten queries. Finally, continuous high-similarity video frames are converted into span anchors, serving as prior position information for the decoder. Experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves a state-of-the-art result, and by using only span anchors and similarity scores as outputs, positioning accuracy outperforms traditional methods, like Moment-DETR.

------------

`[2403.03864] Are Language Models Puzzle Prodigies? Algorithmic Puzzles Unveil Serious Challenges in Multimodal Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03864>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 00:59:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Soujanya Poria [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 6 Mar 2024 17:15:04 UTC (1,736 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 00:59:35 UTC (1,737 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 13 Mar 2024 00:50:05 UTC (1,737 KB)
    Deepanway Ghosal, Vernon Toh Yan Han, Chia Yew Ken, Soujanya Poria

This paper introduces the novel task of multimodal puzzle solving, framed within the context of visual question-answering. We present a new dataset, AlgoPuzzleVQA designed to challenge and evaluate the capabilities of multimodal language models in solving algorithmic puzzles that necessitate both visual understanding, language understanding, and complex algorithmic reasoning. We create the puzzles to encompass a diverse array of mathematical and algorithmic topics such as boolean logic, combinatorics, graph theory, optimization, search, etc., aiming to evaluate the gap between visual data interpretation and algorithmic problem-solving skills. The dataset is generated automatically from code authored by humans. All our puzzles have exact solutions that can be found from the algorithm without tedious human calculations. It ensures that our dataset can be scaled up arbitrarily in terms of reasoning complexity and dataset size. Our investigation reveals that large language models (LLMs) such as GPT4V and Gemini exhibit limited performance in puzzle-solving tasks. We find that their performance is near random in a multi-choice question-answering setup for a significant number of puzzles. The findings emphasize the challenges of integrating visual, language, and algorithmic knowledge for solving complex reasoning problems.

------------

`[2403.04769] Using Hallucinations to Bypass GPT4's Filter <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04769>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 01:21:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Benjamin Lemkin [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 17:02:53 UTC (3,851 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 01:21:32 UTC (6,457 KB)
    Benjamin Lemkin

Large language models (LLMs) are initially trained on vast amounts of data, then fine-tuned using reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF); this also serves to teach the LLM to provide appropriate and safe responses. In this paper, we present a novel method to manipulate the fine-tuned version into reverting to its pre-RLHF behavior, effectively erasing the model's filters; the exploit currently works for GPT4, Claude Sonnet, and (to some extent) for Inflection-2.5. Unlike other jailbreaks (for example, the popular "Do Anything Now" (DAN) ), our method does not rely on instructing the LLM to override its RLHF policy; hence, simply modifying the RLHF process is unlikely to address it. Instead, we induce a hallucination involving reversed text during which the model reverts to a word bucket, effectively pausing the model's filter. We believe that our exploit presents a fundamental vulnerability in LLMs currently unaddressed, as well as an opportunity to better understand the inner workings of LLMs during hallucinations.

------------

`[2310.19181] From Chatbots to PhishBots? -- Preventing Phishing scams created using ChatGPT, Google Bard and Claude <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.19181>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 04:12:27 GMT
    Submission history From: Sayak Saha Roy [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 29 Oct 2023 22:52:40 UTC (7,863 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 04:12:27 UTC (9,084 KB)
    Sayak Saha Roy, Poojitha Thota, Krishna Vamsi Naragam, Shirin Nilizadeh

The advanced capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) have made them invaluable across various applications, from conversational agents and content creation to data analysis, research, and innovation. However, their effectiveness and accessibility also render them susceptible to abuse for generating malicious content, including phishing attacks. This study explores the potential of using four popular commercially available LLMs, i.e., ChatGPT (GPT 3.5 Turbo), GPT 4, Claude, and Bard, to generate functional phishing attacks using a series of malicious prompts. We discover that these LLMs can generate both phishing websites and emails that can convincingly imitate well-known brands and also deploy a range of evasive tactics that are used to elude detection mechanisms employed by anti-phishing systems. These attacks can be generated using unmodified or "vanilla" versions of these LLMs without requiring any prior adversarial exploits such as jailbreaking. We evaluate the performance of the LLMs towards generating these attacks and find that they can also be utilized to create malicious prompts that, in turn, can be fed back to the model to generate phishing scams - thus massively reducing the prompt-engineering effort required by attackers to scale these threats. As a countermeasure, we build a BERT-based automated detection tool that can be used for the early detection of malicious prompts to prevent LLMs from generating phishing content. Our model is transferable across all four commercial LLMs, attaining an average accuracy of 96% for phishing website prompts and 94% for phishing email prompts. We also disclose the vulnerabilities to the concerned LLMs, with Google acknowledging it as a severe issue. Our detection model is available for use at Hugging Face, as well as a ChatGPT Actions plugin.

------------

`[2305.00418] Using Large Language Models to Generate JUnit Tests: An Empirical Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00418>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 9 Mar 2024 00:59:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Mohammed Latif Siddiq [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 30 Apr 2023 07:28:06 UTC (816 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 30 Oct 2023 01:30:16 UTC (516 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:09:17 UTC (581 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 00:59:18 UTC (581 KB)
    Mohammed Latif Siddiq, Joanna C. S. Santos, Ridwanul Hasan Tanvir, Noshin Ulfat, Fahmid Al Rifat, Vinicius Carvalho Lopes

A code generation model generates code by taking a prompt from a code comment, existing code, or a combination of both. Although code generation models (e.g., GitHub Copilot) are increasingly being adopted in practice, it is unclear whether they can successfully be used for unit test generation without fine-tuning for a strongly typed language like Java. To fill this gap, we investigated how well three models (Codex, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and StarCoder) can generate unit tests. We used two benchmarks (HumanEval and Evosuite SF110) to investigate the effect of context generation on the unit test generation process. We evaluated the models based on compilation rates, test correctness, test coverage, and test smells. We found that the Codex model achieved above 80% coverage for the HumanEval dataset, but no model had more than 2% coverage for the EvoSuite SF110 benchmark. The generated tests also suffered from test smells, such as Duplicated Asserts and Empty Tests.

------------

`[2305.05773] DeepTextMark: A Deep Learning-Driven Text Watermarking Approach for Identifying Large Language Model Generated Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.05773>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 06:27:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Xin Zhong [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 9 May 2023 21:31:07 UTC (693 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 06:27:26 UTC (604 KB)
    Travis Munyer, Abdullah Tanvir, Arjon Das, Xin Zhong

The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly enhanced the capabilities of text generators. With the potential for misuse escalating, the importance of discerning whether texts are human-authored or generated by LLMs has become paramount. Several preceding studies have ventured to address this challenge by employing binary classifiers to differentiate between human-written and LLM-generated text. Nevertheless, the reliability of these classifiers has been subject to question. Given that consequential decisions may hinge on the outcome of such classification, it is imperative that text source detection is of high caliber. In light of this, the present paper introduces DeepTextMark, a deep learning-driven text watermarking methodology devised for text source identification. By leveraging Word2Vec and Sentence Encoding for watermark insertion, alongside a transformer-based classifier for watermark detection, DeepTextMark epitomizes a blend of blindness, robustness, imperceptibility, and reliability. As elaborated within the paper, these attributes are crucial for universal text source detection, with a particular emphasis in this paper on text produced by LLMs. DeepTextMark offers a viable "add-on" solution to prevailing text generation frameworks, requiring no direct access or alterations to the underlying text generation mechanism. Experimental evaluations underscore the high imperceptibility, elevated detection accuracy, augmented robustness, reliability, and swift execution of DeepTextMark.

------------

`[2309.06679] Generalizable improvement of the Spalart-Allmaras model through assimilation of experimental data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06679>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 10 Mar 2024 18:33:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Deepinder Jot Singh Aulakh [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 13 Sep 2023 02:34:21 UTC (834 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 18:33:54 UTC (893 KB)
    Deepinder Jot Singh Aulakh, Xiang Yang and Romit Maulik

This study focuses on the use of model and data fusion for improving the Spalart-Allmaras (SA) closure model for Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes solutions of separated flows. In particular, our goal is to develop of models that not-only assimilate sparse experimental data to improve performance in computational models, but also generalize to unseen cases by recovering classical SA behavior. We achieve our goals using data assimilation, namely the Ensemble Kalman Filtering approach (EnKF), to calibrate the coefficients of the SA model for separated flows. A holistic calibration strategy is implemented via a parameterization of the production, diffusion, and destruction terms. This calibration relies on the assimilation of experimental data collected velocity profiles, skin friction, and pressure coefficients for separated flows. Despite using of observational data from a single flow condition around a backward-facing step (BFS), the recalibrated SA model demonstrates generalization to other separated flows, including cases such as the 2D-bump and modified BFS. Significant improvement is observed in the quantities of interest, i.e., skin friction coefficient ($C_f$) and pressure coefficient ($C_p$) for each flow tested. Finally, it is also demonstrated that the newly proposed model recovers SA proficiency for external, unseparated flows, such as flow around a NACA-0012 airfoil without any danger of extrapolation, and that the individually calibrated terms in the SA model are targeted towards specific flow-physics wherein the calibrated production term improves the re-circulation zone while destruction improves the recovery zone.

------------

`[2312.15698] RepairLLaMA: Efficient Representations and Fine-Tuned Adapters for Program Repair <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15698>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:31:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Andr Silva [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 25 Dec 2023 11:39:46 UTC (307 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 12:03:24 UTC (308 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 11 Mar 2024 08:31:19 UTC (309 KB)
    Andr\'e Silva, Sen Fang, Martin Monperrus

Automated Program Repair (APR) has evolved significantly with the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs). Fine-tuning LLMs for program repair is a recent avenue of research, with many dimensions which have not been explored. Existing work mostly fine-tunes LLMs with naive code representations and is fundamentally limited in its ability to fine-tune larger LLMs. To address this problem, we propose RepairLLaMA, a novel program repair approach that combines 1) code representations for APR and 2) the state-of-the-art parameter-efficient LLM fine-tuning technique called LoRA. This results in RepairLLaMA producing a highly effective `program repair adapter' for fixing bugs with language models. Our experiments demonstrate the validity of both concepts. First, fine-tuning adapters with program repair specific code representations enables the model to use meaningful repair signals. Second, parameter-efficient fine-tuning helps fine-tuning to converge and contributes to the effectiveness of the repair adapter to fix data-points outside the fine-tuning data distribution. Overall, RepairLLaMA correctly fixes 125 Defects4J v2 and 82 HumanEval-Java bugs, outperforming all baselines.
