240325
========

`[2403.15137] CACA Agent: Capability Collaboration based AI Agent <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15137>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 11:42:47 GMT
    Peng Xu, Haoran Wang, Chuang Wang and Xu Liu

As AI Agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown potential in practical applications across various fields, how to quickly deploy an AI agent and how to conveniently expand the application scenario of AI agents has become a challenge. Previous studies mainly focused on implementing all the reasoning capabilities of AI agents within a single LLM, which often makes the model more complex and also reduces the extensibility of AI agent functionality. In this paper, we propose CACA Agent (Capability Collaboration based AI Agent), using an open architecture inspired by service computing. CACA Agent integrates a set of collaborative capabilities to implement AI Agents, not only reducing the dependence on a single LLM, but also enhancing the extensibility of both the planning abilities and the tools available to AI agents. Utilizing the proposed system, we present a demo to illustrate the operation and the application scenario extension of CACA Agent.

------------

`[2403.15297] Sphere Neural-Networks for Rational Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15297>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:44:59 GMT
    Tiansi Dong, Mateja Jamnik, Pietro Li\`o

The success of Large Language Models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, is witnessed by their planetary popularity, their capability of human-like question-answering, and also by their steadily improved reasoning performance. However, it remains unclear whether LLMs reason. It is an open problem how traditional neural networks can be qualitatively extended to go beyond the statistic paradigm and achieve high-level cognition. Here, we present a minimalist qualitative extension by generalising computational building blocks from vectors to spheres. We propose Sphere Neural Networks (SphNNs) for human-like reasoning through model construction and inspection, and develop SphNN for syllogistic reasoning, a microcosm of human rationality. Instead of training data, SphNN uses a neuro-symbolic transition map of neighbourhood spatial relations to guide transformations from the current sphere configuration towards the target.
SphNN is the first neural model that can determine the validity of long-chained syllogistic reasoning in one epoch by constructing sphere configurations as Euler diagrams, with the worst computational complexity of O(N^2). SphNN can evolve into various types of reasoning, such as spatio-temporal reasoning, logical reasoning with negation and disjunction, event reasoning, neuro-symbolic reasoning, and humour understanding (the highest level of cognition). All these suggest a new kind of Herbert A. Simon's scissors with two neural blades. SphNNs will tremendously enhance interdisciplinary collaborations to develop the two neural blades and realise deterministic neural reasoning and human-bounded rationality and elevate LLMs to reliable psychological AI. This work suggests that the non-zero radii of spheres are the missing components that prevent traditional deep-learning systems from reaching the realm of rational reasoning and cause LLMs to be trapped in the swamp of hallucination.

------------

`[2403.14814] The opportunities and risks of large language models in mental health <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14814>`__

::

    Thu, 21 Mar 2024 19:59:52 GMT
    Hannah R. Lawrence, Renee A. Schneider, Susan B. Rubin, Maja J. Mataric, Daniel J. McDuff, and Megan Jones Bell

Global rates of mental health concerns are rising and there is increasing realization that existing models of mental healthcare will not adequately expand to meet the demand. With the emergence of large language models (LLMs) has come great optimism regarding their promise to create novel, large-scale solutions to support mental health. Despite their nascence, LLMs have already been applied to mental health-related tasks. In this review, we summarize the extant literature on efforts to use LLMs to provide mental health education, assessment, and intervention and highlight key opportunities for positive impact in each area. We then highlight risks associated with LLMs application to mental health and encourage adoption of strategies to mitigate these risks.
The urgent need for mental health support must be balanced with responsible development, testing, and deployment of mental health LLMs. Especially critical is ensuring that mental health LLMs are fine-tuned for mental health, enhance mental health equity, adhere to ethical standards, and that people, including those with lived experience with mental health concerns, are involved in all stages from development through deployment. Prioritizing these efforts will minimize potential harms to mental health and maximize the likelihood that LLMs will positively impact mental health globally.

------------

`[2403.14859] Comparing Plausibility Estimates in Base and Instruction-Tuned Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14859>`__

::

    Thu, 21 Mar 2024 22:08:44 GMT
    Carina Kauf, Emmanuele Chersoni, Alessandro Lenci, Evelina Fedorenko and Anna A. Ivanova

Instruction-tuned LLMs can respond to explicit queries formulated as prompts, which greatly facilitates interaction with human users. However, prompt-based approaches might not always be able to tap into the wealth of implicit knowledge acquired by LLMs during pre-training. This paper presents a comprehensive study of ways to evaluate semantic plausibility in LLMs. We compare base and instruction-tuned LLM performance on an English sentence plausibility task via (a) explicit prompting and (b) implicit estimation via direct readout of the probabilities models assign to strings. Experiment 1 shows that, across model architectures and plausibility datasets, (i) log likelihood ($\textit{LL}$) scores are the most reliable indicator of sentence plausibility, with zero-shot prompting yielding inconsistent and typically poor results; (ii) $\textit{LL}$-based performance is still inferior to human performance; (iii) instruction-tuned models have worse $\textit{LL}$-based performance than base models. In Experiment 2, we show that $\textit{LL}$ scores across models are modulated by context in the expected way, showing high performance on three metrics of context-sensitive plausibility and providing a direct match to explicit human plausibility judgments. Overall, $\textit{LL}$ estimates remain a more reliable measure of plausibility in LLMs than direct prompting.

------------

`[2403.14888] AutoRE: Document-Level Relation Extraction with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14888>`__

::

    Thu, 21 Mar 2024 23:48:21 GMT
    Xue Lilong and Zhang Dan and Dong Yuxiao and Tang Jie

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional abilities in comprehending and generating text, motivating numerous researchers to utilize them for Information Extraction (IE) purposes, including Relation Extraction (RE). Nonetheless, most existing methods are predominantly designed for Sentence-level Relation Extraction (SentRE) tasks, which typically encompass a restricted set of relations and triplet facts within a single sentence.
Furthermore, certain approaches resort to treating relations as candidate choices integrated into prompt templates, leading to inefficient processing and suboptimal performance when tackling Document-Level Relation Extraction (DocRE) tasks, which entail handling multiple relations and triplet facts distributed across a given document, posing distinct challenges. To overcome these limitations, we introduce AutoRE, an end-to-end DocRE model that adopts a novel RE extraction paradigm named RHF (Relation-Head-Facts). Unlike existing approaches, AutoRE does not rely on the assumption of known relation options, making it more reflective of real-world scenarios. Additionally, we have developed an easily extensible RE framework using a Parameters Efficient Fine Tuning (PEFT) algorithm (QLoRA). Our experiments on the RE-DocRED dataset showcase AutoRE's best performance, achieving state-of-the-art results, surpassing TAG by 10.03% and 9.03% respectively on the dev and test set.

------------

`[2403.14932] Attention-Driven Reasoning: Unlocking the Potential of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14932>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 03:23:58 GMT
    Bingli Liao, Danilo Vasconcellos Vargas

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities, but their reasoning abilities and underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. We present a novel approach to enhance LLMs' reasoning through attention mechanism optimization, without additional training data. We identify inefficiencies in the attention distribution caused by non-semantic tokens and propose an algorithm to re-balance the skewed distribution, enabling the model to abstract more nuanced knowledge. Our experiments demonstrate significantly improved reasoning capabilities, particularly for non-STEM questions. We provide insights into the role of attention patterns in LLMs' reasoning and propose a method to enhance these abilities, paving the way for more powerful and versatile language models.

------------

`[2403.14938] On Zero-Shot Counterspeech Generation by LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14938>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 04:13:10 GMT
    Punyajoy Saha, Aalok Agrawal, Abhik Jana, Chris Biemann, Animesh Mukherjee

With the emergence of numerous Large Language Models (LLM), the usage of such models in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications is increasing extensively. Counterspeech generation is one such key task where efforts are made to develop generative models by fine-tuning LLMs with hatespeech - counterspeech pairs, but none of these attempts explores the intrinsic properties of large language models in zero-shot settings. In this work, we present a comprehensive analysis of the performances of four LLMs namely GPT-2, DialoGPT, ChatGPT and FlanT5 in zero-shot settings for counterspeech generation, which is the first of its kind. For GPT-2 and DialoGPT, we further investigate the deviation in performance with respect to the sizes (small, medium, large) of the models. On the other hand, we propose three different prompting strategies for generating different types of counterspeech and analyse the impact of such strategies on the performance of the models. Our analysis shows that there is an improvement in generation quality for two datasets (17%), however the toxicity increase (25%) with increase in model size. Considering type of model, GPT-2 and FlanT5 models are significantly better in terms of counterspeech quality but also have high toxicity as compared to DialoGPT. ChatGPT are much better at generating counter speech than other models across all metrics. In terms of prompting, we find that our proposed strategies help in improving counter speech generation across all the models.

------------

`[2403.14950] KnowLA: Enhancing Parameter-efficient Finetuning with Knowledgeable Adaptation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14950>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 04:48:41 GMT
    Xindi Luo and Zequn Sun and Jing Zhao and Zhe Zhao and Wei Hu

Parameter-efficient finetuning (PEFT) is a key technique for adapting large language models (LLMs) to downstream tasks. In this paper, we study leveraging knowledge graph embeddings to improve the effectiveness of PEFT. We propose a knowledgeable adaptation method called KnowLA. It inserts an adaptation layer into an LLM to integrate the embeddings of entities appearing in the input text. The adaptation layer is trained in combination with LoRA on instruction data. Experiments on six benchmarks with two popular LLMs and three knowledge graphs demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of KnowLA. We show that \modelname can help activate the relevant parameterized knowledge in an LLM to answer a question without changing its parameters or input prompts.

------------

`[2403.14952] Evidence-Driven Retrieval Augmented Response Generation for Online Misinformation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14952>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 05:05:45 GMT
    Zhenrui Yue, Huimin Zeng, Yimeng Lu, Lanyu Shang, Yang Zhang, Dong Wang

The proliferation of online misinformation has posed significant threats to public interest. While numerous online users actively participate in the combat against misinformation, many of such responses can be characterized by the lack of politeness and supporting facts. As a solution, text generation approaches are proposed to automatically produce counter-misinformation responses.
Nevertheless, existing methods are often trained end-to-end without leveraging external knowledge, resulting in subpar text quality and excessively repetitive responses. In this paper, we propose retrieval augmented response generation for online misinformation (RARG), which collects supporting evidence from scientific sources and generates counter-misinformation responses based on the evidences. In particular, our RARG consists of two stages: (1) evidence collection, where we design a retrieval pipeline to retrieve and rerank evidence documents using a database comprising over 1M academic articles; (2) response generation, in which we align large language models (LLMs) to generate evidence-based responses via reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF).
We propose a reward function to maximize the utilization of the retrieved evidence while maintaining the quality of the generated text, which yields polite and factual responses that clearly refutes misinformation. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, we study the case of COVID-19 and perform extensive experiments with both in- and cross-domain datasets, where RARG consistently outperforms baselines by generating high-quality counter-misinformation responses.

------------

`[2403.14982] MasonTigers at SemEval-2024 Task 9: Solving Puzzles with an Ensemble of Chain-of-Thoughts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14982>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:31:49 GMT
    Md Nishat Raihan, Dhiman Goswami, Al Nahian Bin Emran, Sadiya Sayara Chowdhury Puspo, Amrita Ganguly, Marcos Zampieri

Our paper presents team MasonTigers submission to the SemEval-2024 Task 9 - which provides a dataset of puzzles for testing natural language understanding.
We employ large language models (LLMs) to solve this task through several prompting techniques. Zero-shot and few-shot prompting generate reasonably good results when tested with proprietary LLMs, compared to the open-source models.
We obtain further improved results with chain-of-thought prompting, an iterative prompting method that breaks down the reasoning process step-by-step.
We obtain our best results by utilizing an ensemble of chain-of-thought prompts, placing 2nd in the word puzzle subtask and 13th in the sentence puzzle subtask. The strong performance of prompted LLMs demonstrates their capability for complex reasoning when provided with a decomposition of the thought process. Our work sheds light on how step-wise explanatory prompts can unlock more of the knowledge encoded in the parameters of large models.

------------

`[2403.14988] Risk and Response in Large Language Models: Evaluating Key Threat Categories <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14988>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:46:40 GMT
    Bahareh Harandizadeh, Abel Salinas, Fred Morstatter

This paper explores the pressing issue of risk assessment in Large Language Models (LLMs) as they become increasingly prevalent in various applications.
Focusing on how reward models, which are designed to fine-tune pretrained LLMs to align with human values, perceive and categorize different types of risks, we delve into the challenges posed by the subjective nature of preference-based training data. By utilizing the Anthropic Red-team dataset, we analyze major risk categories, including Information Hazards, Malicious Uses, and Discrimination/Hateful content. Our findings indicate that LLMs tend to consider Information Hazards less harmful, a finding confirmed by a specially developed regression model. Additionally, our analysis shows that LLMs respond less stringently to Information Hazards compared to other risks. The study further reveals a significant vulnerability of LLMs to jailbreaking attacks in Information Hazard scenarios, highlighting a critical security concern in LLM risk assessment and emphasizing the need for improved AI safety measures.

------------

`[2403.15042] LLM2LLM: Boosting LLMs with Novel Iterative Data Enhancement <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15042>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 08:57:07 GMT
    Nicholas Lee, Thanakul Wattanawong, Sehoon Kim, Karttikeya Mangalam, Sheng Shen, Gopala Anumanchipali, Michael W. Mahoney, Kurt Keutzer, Amir Gholami

Pretrained large language models (LLMs) are currently state-of-the-art for solving the vast majority of natural language processing tasks. While many real-world applications still require fine-tuning to reach satisfactory levels of performance, many of them are in the low-data regime, making fine-tuning challenging. To address this, we propose LLM2LLM, a targeted and iterative data augmentation strategy that uses a teacher LLM to enhance a small seed dataset by augmenting additional data that can be used for fine-tuning on a specific task. LLM2LLM (1) fine-tunes a baseline student LLM on the initial seed data, (2) evaluates and extracts data points that the model gets wrong, and (3) uses a teacher LLM to generate synthetic data based on these incorrect data points, which are then added back into the training data. This approach amplifies the signal from incorrectly predicted data points by the LLM during training and reintegrates them into the dataset to focus on more challenging examples for the LLM. Our results show that LLM2LLM significantly enhances the performance of LLMs in the low-data regime, outperforming both traditional fine-tuning and other data augmentation baselines. LLM2LLM reduces the dependence on labor-intensive data curation and paves the way for more scalable and performant LLM solutions, allowing us to tackle data-constrained domains and tasks. We achieve improvements up to 24.2% on the GSM8K dataset, 32.6% on CaseHOLD, 32.0% on SNIPS, 52.6% on TREC and 39.8% on SST-2 over regular fine-tuning in the low-data regime using a LLaMA2-7B student model.

------------

`[2403.15088] CHisIEC: An Information Extraction Corpus for Ancient Chinese History <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15088>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 10:12:10 GMT
    Xuemei Tang, Zekun Deng, Qi Su, Hao Yang, Jun Wang

Natural Language Processing (NLP) plays a pivotal role in the realm of Digital Humanities (DH) and serves as the cornerstone for advancing the structural analysis of historical and cultural heritage texts. This is particularly true for the domains of named entity recognition (NER) and relation extraction (RE). In our commitment to expediting ancient history and culture, we present the ``Chinese Historical Information Extraction Corpus''(CHisIEC). CHisIEC is a meticulously curated dataset designed to develop and evaluate NER and RE tasks, offering a resource to facilitate research in the field. Spanning a remarkable historical timeline encompassing data from 13 dynasties spanning over 1830 years, CHisIEC epitomizes the extensive temporal range and text heterogeneity inherent in Chinese historical documents. The dataset encompasses four distinct entity types and twelve relation types, resulting in a meticulously labeled dataset comprising 14,194 entities and 8,609 relations. To establish the robustness and versatility of our dataset, we have undertaken comprehensive experimentation involving models of various sizes and paradigms. Additionally, we have evaluated the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in the context of tasks related to ancient Chinese history. The dataset and code are available at \url{https://github.com/tangxuemei1995/CHisIEC}.

------------

`[2403.15112] Text clustering with LLM embeddings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15112>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 11:08:48 GMT
    Alina Petukhova, Joao P. Matos-Carvalho, Nuno Fachada

Text clustering is an important approach for organising the growing amount of digital content, helping to structure and find hidden patterns in uncategorised data. In this research, we investigated how different textual embeddings - particularly those used in large language models (LLMs) - and clustering algorithms affect how text datasets are clustered. A series of experiments were conducted to assess how embeddings influence clustering results, the role played by dimensionality reduction through summarisation, and embedding size adjustment. Results reveal that LLM embeddings excel at capturing the nuances of structured language, while BERT leads the lightweight options in performance. In addition, we find that increasing embedding dimensionality and summarisation techniques do not uniformly improve clustering efficiency, suggesting that these strategies require careful analysis to use in real-life models. These results highlight a complex balance between the need for nuanced text representation and computational feasibility in text clustering applications. This study extends traditional text clustering frameworks by incorporating embeddings from LLMs, thereby paving the way for improved methodologies and opening new avenues for future research in various types of textual analysis.

------------

`[2403.15115] Language Models in Dialogue: Conversational Maxims for Human-AI Interactions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15115>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 11:16:43 GMT
    Erik Miehling, Manish Nagireddy, Prasanna Sattigeri, Elizabeth M. Daly, David Piorkowski, John T. Richards

Modern language models, while sophisticated, exhibit some inherent shortcomings, particularly in conversational settings. We claim that many of the observed shortcomings can be attributed to violation of one or more conversational principles. By drawing upon extensive research from both the social science and AI communities, we propose a set of maxims -- quantity, quality, relevance, manner, benevolence, and transparency -- for describing effective human-AI conversation. We first justify the applicability of the first four maxims (from Grice) in the context of human-AI interactions. We then argue that two new maxims, benevolence (concerning the generation of, and engagement with, harmful content) and transparency (concerning recognition of one's knowledge boundaries, operational constraints, and intents), are necessary for addressing behavior unique to modern human-AI interactions. The proposed maxims offer prescriptive guidance on how to assess conversational quality between humans and LLM-driven conversational agents, informing both their evaluation and improved design.

------------

`[2403.15185] Investigating the Performance of Language Models for Completing Code in Functional Programming Languages: a Haskell Case Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15185>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:13:13 GMT
    Tim van Dam and Frank van der Heijden and Philippe de Bekker and Berend Nieuwschepen and Marc Otten and Maliheh Izadi

Language model-based code completion models have quickly grown in use, helping thousands of developers write code in many different programming languages. However, research on code completion models typically focuses on imperative languages such as Python and JavaScript, which results in a lack of representation for functional programming languages. Consequently, these models often perform poorly on functional languages such as Haskell. To investigate whether this can be alleviated, we evaluate the performance of two language models for code, CodeGPT and UniXcoder, on the functional programming language Haskell. We fine-tune and evaluate the models on Haskell functions sourced from a publicly accessible Haskell dataset on HuggingFace. Additionally, we manually evaluate the models using our novel translated HumanEval dataset. Our automatic evaluation shows that knowledge of imperative programming languages in the pre-training of LLMs may not transfer well to functional languages, but that code completion on functional languages is feasible. Consequently, this shows the need for more high-quality Haskell datasets. A manual evaluation on HumanEval-Haskell indicates CodeGPT frequently generates empty predictions and extra comments, while UniXcoder more often produces incomplete or incorrect predictions. Finally, we release HumanEval-Haskell, along with the fine-tuned models and all code required to reproduce our experiments on GitHub (https://github.com/AISE-TUDelft/HaskellCCEval).

------------

`[2403.15250] Comprehensive Reassessment of Large-Scale Evaluation Outcomes in LLMs: A Multifaceted Statistical Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15250>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 14:47:35 GMT
    Kun Sun, Rong Wang, Haitao Liu, and Anders S{\o}gaard

Amidst the rapid evolution of LLMs, the significance of evaluation in comprehending and propelling these models forward is increasingly paramount.
Evaluations have revealed that factors such as scaling, training types, architectures and other factors profoundly impact the performance of LLMs.
However, the extent and nature of these impacts continue to be subjects of debate because most assessments have been restricted to a limited number of models and data points. Clarifying the effects of these factors on performance scores can be more effectively achieved through a statistical lens. Our study embarks on a thorough re-examination of these LLMs, targeting the inadequacies in current evaluation methods. With the advent of a uniform evaluation framework, our research leverages an expansive dataset of evaluation results, introducing a comprehensive statistical methodology. This includes the application of ANOVA, Tukey HSD tests, GAMM, and clustering technique, offering a robust and transparent approach to deciphering LLM performance data. Contrary to prevailing findings, our results challenge assumptions about emergent abilities and the influence of given training types and architectures in LLMs.
These findings furnish new perspectives on the characteristics, intrinsic nature, and developmental trajectories of LLMs. By providing straightforward and reliable methods to scrutinize and reassess LLM performance data, this study contributes a nuanced perspective on LLM efficiency and potentials.

------------

`[2403.15268] Imagination Augmented Generation: Learning to Imagine Richer Context for Question Answering over Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15268>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:06:45 GMT
    Huanxuan Liao, Shizhu He, Yao Xu, Yuanzhe Zhang, Kang Liu, Shengping Liu, Jun Zhao

Retrieval-Augmented-Generation and Gener-ation-Augmented-Generation have been proposed to enhance the knowledge required for question answering over Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the former depends on external resources, and both require incorporating the explicit documents into the context, which results in longer contexts that lead to more resource consumption. Recent works indicate that LLMs have modeled rich knowledge, albeit not effectively triggered or activated. Inspired by this, we propose a novel knowledge-augmented framework, Imagination-Augmented-Generation (IAG), which simulates the human capacity to compensate for knowledge deficits while answering questions solely through imagination, without relying on external resources. Guided by IAG, we propose an imagine richer context method for question answering (IMcQA), which obtains richer context through the following two modules: explicit imagination by generating a short dummy document with long context compress and implicit imagination with HyperNetwork for generating adapter weights. Experimental results on three datasets demonstrate that IMcQA exhibits significant advantages in both open-domain and closed-book settings, as well as in both in-distribution performance and out-of-distribution generalizations. Our code will be available at https://github.com/Xnhyacinth/IAG.

------------

`[2403.15273] Event Temporal Relation Extraction based on Retrieval-Augmented on LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15273>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:16:10 GMT
    Xiaobin Zhang, Liangjun Zang, Qianwen Liu, Shuchong Wei, Songlin Hu

Event temporal relation (TempRel) is a primary subject of the event relation extraction task. However, the inherent ambiguity of TempRel increases the difficulty of the task. With the rise of prompt engineering, it is important to design effective prompt templates and verbalizers to extract relevant knowledge. The traditional manually designed templates struggle to extract precise temporal knowledge. This paper introduces a novel retrieval-augmented TempRel extraction approach, leveraging knowledge retrieved from large language models (LLMs) to enhance prompt templates and verbalizers. Our method capitalizes on the diverse capabilities of various LLMs to generate a wide array of ideas for template and verbalizer design. Our proposed method fully exploits the potential of LLMs for generation tasks and contributes more knowledge to our design. Empirical evaluations across three widely recognized datasets demonstrate the efficacy of our method in improving the performance of event temporal relation extraction tasks.

------------

`[2403.15362] CoLLEGe: Concept Embedding Generation for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15362>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:26:05 GMT
    Ryan Teehan, Brenden Lake, Mengye Ren

Current language models are unable to quickly learn new concepts on the fly, often requiring a more involved finetuning process to learn robustly. Prompting in-context is not robust to context distractions, and often fails to confer much information about the new concepts. Classic methods for few-shot word learning in NLP, relying on global word vectors, are less applicable to large language models. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach named CoLLEGe (Concept Learning with Language Embedding Generation) to modernize few-shot concept learning. CoLLEGe is a meta-learning framework capable of generating flexible embeddings for new concepts using a small number of example sentences or definitions. Our primary meta-learning objective is simply to facilitate a language model to make next word predictions in forthcoming sentences, making it compatible with language model pretraining. We design a series of tasks to test new concept learning in challenging real-world scenarios, including new word acquisition, definition inference, and verbal reasoning, and demonstrate that our method succeeds in each setting without task-specific training.

------------

`[2403.14999] Magic for the Age of Quantized DNNs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14999>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 07:21:09 GMT
    Yoshihide Sawada, Ryuji Saiin, Kazuma Suetake

Recently, the number of parameters in DNNs has explosively increased, as exemplified by LLMs (Large Language Models), making inference on small-scale computers more difficult. Model compression technology is, therefore, essential for integration into products. In this paper, we propose a method of quantization-aware training. We introduce a novel normalization (Layer-Batch Normalization) that is independent of the mini-batch size and does not require any additional computation cost during inference. Then, we quantize the weights by the scaled round-clip function with the weight standardization. We also quantize activation functions using the same function and apply surrogate gradients to train the model with both quantized weights and the quantized activation functions. We call this method Magic for the age of Quantised DNNs (MaQD). Experimental results show that our quantization method can be achieved with minimal accuracy degradation.

------------

`[2403.15371] Can large language models explore in-context? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15371>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:50:43 GMT
    Akshay Krishnamurthy, Keegan Harris, Dylan J. Foster, Cyril Zhang, Aleksandrs Slivkins

We investigate the extent to which contemporary Large Language Models (LLMs) can engage in exploration, a core capability in reinforcement learning and decision making. We focus on native performance of existing LLMs, without training interventions. We deploy LLMs as agents in simple multi-armed bandit environments, specifying the environment description and interaction history entirely in-context, i.e., within the LLM prompt. We experiment with GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Llama2, using a variety of prompt designs, and find that the models do not robustly engage in exploration without substantial interventions: i) Across all of our experiments, only one configuration resulted in satisfactory exploratory behavior: GPT-4 with chain-of-thought reasoning and an externally summarized interaction history, presented as sufficient statistics; ii) All other configurations did not result in robust exploratory behavior, including those with chain-of-thought reasoning but unsummarized history. Although these findings can be interpreted positively, they suggest that external summarization -- which may not be possible in more complex settings -- is important for obtaining desirable behavior from LLM agents. We conclude that non-trivial algorithmic interventions, such as fine-tuning or dataset curation, may be required to empower LLM-based decision making agents in complex settings.

------------

`[2403.14633] Born With a Silver Spoon? Investigating Socioeconomic Bias in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14633>`__

::

    Fri, 16 Feb 2024 23:18:19 GMT
    Smriti Singh, Shuvam Keshari, Vinija Jain, Aman Chadha

Socioeconomic bias in society exacerbates disparities, influencing access to opportunities and resources based on individuals' economic and social backgrounds. This pervasive issue perpetuates systemic inequalities, hindering the pursuit of inclusive progress as a society. In this paper, we investigate the presence of socioeconomic bias, if any, in large language models. To this end, we introduce a novel dataset (SilverSpoon), consisting of 3000 samples that illustrate hypothetical scenarios that involve underprivileged people performing ethically ambiguous actions due to their circumstances, and ask whether the action is ethically justified. Further, this dataset has a dual-labeling scheme and has been annotated by people belonging to both ends of the socioeconomic spectrum. Using SilverSpoon, we evaluate the degree of socioeconomic bias expressed in large language models and the variation of this degree as a function of model size. We also perform qualitative analysis to analyze the nature of this bias. Our analysis reveals that while humans disagree on which situations require empathy toward the underprivileged, most large language models are unable to empathize with the socioeconomically underprivileged regardless of the situation. To foster further research in this domain, we make SilverSpoon and our evaluation harness publicly available.

------------

`[2403.14643] Exploring ChatGPT and its Impact on Society <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14643>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:44:35 GMT
    Md. Asraful Haque and Shuai Li

Artificial intelligence has been around for a while, but suddenly it has received more attention than ever before. Thanks to innovations from companies like Google, Microsoft, Meta, and other major brands in technology. OpenAI, though, has triggered the button with its ground-breaking invention ChatGPT.
ChatGPT is a Large Language Model (LLM) based on Transformer architecture that has the ability to generate human-like responses in a conversational context.
It uses deep learning algorithms to generate natural language responses to input text. Its large number of parameters, contextual generation, and open-domain training make it a versatile and effective tool for a wide range of applications, from chatbots to customer service to language translation. It has the potential to revolutionize various industries and transform the way we interact with technology. However, the use of ChatGPT has also raised several concerns, including ethical, social, and employment challenges, which must be carefully considered to ensure the responsible use of this technology. The article provides an overview of ChatGPT, delving into its architecture and training process. It highlights the potential impacts of ChatGPT on the society. In this paper, we suggest some approaches involving technology, regulation, education, and ethics in an effort to maximize ChatGPT's benefits while minimizing its negative impacts. This study is expected to contribute to a greater understanding of ChatGPT and aid in predicting the potential changes it may bring about.

------------

`[2403.14652] MemeCraft: Contextual and Stance-Driven Multimodal Meme Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14652>`__

::

    Sat, 24 Feb 2024 06:14:34 GMT
    Han Wang, Roy Ka-Wei Lee

Online memes have emerged as powerful digital cultural artifacts in the age of social media, offering not only humor but also platforms for political discourse, social critique, and information dissemination. Their extensive reach and influence in shaping online communities' sentiments make them invaluable tools for campaigning and promoting ideologies. Despite the development of several meme-generation tools, there remains a gap in their systematic evaluation and their ability to effectively communicate ideologies.
Addressing this, we introduce MemeCraft, an innovative meme generator that leverages large language models (LLMs) and visual language models (VLMs) to produce memes advocating specific social movements. MemeCraft presents an end-to-end pipeline, transforming user prompts into compelling multimodal memes without manual intervention. Conscious of the misuse potential in creating divisive content, an intrinsic safety mechanism is embedded to curb hateful meme production.

------------

`[2403.14668] Predicting Learning Performance with Large Language Models: A Study in Adult Literacy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14668>`__

::

    Mon, 4 Mar 2024 08:14:07 GMT
    Liang Zhang, Jionghao Lin, Conrad Borchers, John Sabatini, John Hollander, Meng Cao, Xiangen Hu

Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITSs) have significantly enhanced adult literacy training, a key factor for societal participation, employment opportunities, and lifelong learning. Our study investigates the application of advanced AI models, including Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4, for predicting learning performance in adult literacy programs in ITSs. This research is motivated by the potential of LLMs to predict learning performance based on its inherent reasoning and computational capabilities. By using reading comprehension datasets from the ITS, AutoTutor, we evaluate the predictive capabilities of GPT-4 versus traditional machine learning methods in predicting learning performance through five-fold cross-validation techniques.
Our findings show that the GPT-4 presents the competitive predictive abilities with traditional machine learning methods such as Bayesian Knowledge Tracing, Performance Factor Analysis, Sparse Factor Analysis Lite (SPARFA-Lite), tensor factorization and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost). While XGBoost (trained on local machine) outperforms GPT-4 in predictive accuracy, GPT-4-selected XGBoost and its subsequent tuning on the GPT-4 platform demonstrates superior performance compared to local machine execution. Moreover, our investigation into hyper-parameter tuning by GPT-4 versus grid-search suggests comparable performance, albeit with less stability in the automated approach, using XGBoost as the case study. Our study contributes to the field by highlighting the potential of integrating LLMs with traditional machine learning models to enhance predictive accuracy and personalize adult literacy education, setting a foundation for future research in applying LLMs within ITSs.

------------

`[2403.14683] A Moral Imperative: The Need for Continual Superalignment of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14683>`__

::

    Wed, 13 Mar 2024 05:44:50 GMT
    Gokul Puthumanaillam, Manav Vora, Pranay Thangeda, Melkior Ornik

This paper examines the challenges associated with achieving life-long superalignment in AI systems, particularly large language models (LLMs).
Superalignment is a theoretical framework that aspires to ensure that superintelligent AI systems act in accordance with human values and goals.
Despite its promising vision, we argue that achieving superalignment requires substantial changes in the current LLM architectures due to their inherent limitations in comprehending and adapting to the dynamic nature of these human ethics and evolving global scenarios. We dissect the challenges of encoding an ever-changing spectrum of human values into LLMs, highlighting the discrepancies between static AI models and the dynamic nature of human societies. To illustrate these challenges, we analyze two distinct examples: one demonstrates a qualitative shift in human values, while the other presents a quantifiable change. Through these examples, we illustrate how LLMs, constrained by their training data, fail to align with contemporary human values and scenarios. The paper concludes by exploring potential strategies to address and possibly mitigate these alignment discrepancies, suggesting a path forward in the pursuit of more adaptable and responsive AI systems.

------------

`[2403.14691] Large Language Models and User Trust: Focus on Healthcare <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14691>`__

::

    Fri, 15 Mar 2024 04:04:45 GMT
    Avishek Choudhury, Zaria Chaudhry

This paper explores the evolving relationship between clinician trust in LLMs, the transformation of data sources from predominantly human-generated to AI-generated content, and the subsequent impact on the precision of LLMs and clinician competence. One of the primary concerns identified is the potential feedback loop that arises as LLMs become more reliant on their outputs for learning, which may lead to a degradation in output quality and a reduction in clinician skills due to decreased engagement with fundamental diagnostic processes. While theoretical at this stage, this feedback loop poses a significant challenge as the integration of LLMs in healthcare deepens, emphasizing the need for proactive dialogue and strategic measures to ensure the safe and effective use of LLM technology. Moreover, we delve into the potential risks associated with LLMs' self-referential learning loops and the deskilling of healthcare professionals. The risk of LLMs operating within an echo chamber, where AI-generated content feeds into the learning algorithms, threatens the diversity and quality of the data pool, potentially entrenching biases and reducing the efficacy of LLMs. Concurrently, reliance on LLMs for routine or critical tasks could result in a decline in healthcare providers' diagnostic and thinking skills, particularly affecting the training and development of future professionals.

------------

`[2403.14734] A Survey of Neural Code Intelligence: Paradigms, Advances and Beyond <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14734>`__

::

    Thu, 21 Mar 2024 08:54:56 GMT
    Qiushi Sun, Zhirui Chen, Fangzhi Xu, Kanzhi Cheng, Chang Ma, Zhangyue Yin, Jianing Wang, Chengcheng Han, Renyu Zhu, Shuai Yuan, Qipeng Guo, Xipeng Qiu, Pengcheng Yin, Xiaoli Li, Fei Yuan, Lingpeng Kong, Xiang Li, Zhiyong Wu

Neural Code Intelligence -- leveraging deep learning to understand, generate, and optimize code -- holds immense potential for transformative impacts on the whole society. Bridging the gap between Natural Language and Programming Language, this domain has drawn significant attention from researchers in both research communities over the past few years. This survey presents a systematic and chronological review of the advancements in code intelligence, encompassing over 50 representative models and their variants, more than 20 categories of tasks, and an extensive coverage of over 680 related works. We follow the historical progression to trace the paradigm shifts across different research phases (e.g., from modeling code with recurrent neural networks to the era of Large Language Models). Concurrently, we highlight the major technical transitions in models, tasks, and evaluations spanning through different stages. For applications, we also observe a co-evolving shift. It spans from initial endeavors to tackling specific scenarios, through exploring a diverse array of tasks during its rapid expansion, to currently focusing on tackling increasingly complex and varied real-world challenges. Building on our examination of the developmental trajectories, we further investigate the emerging synergies between code intelligence and broader machine intelligence, uncovering new cross-domain opportunities and illustrating the substantial influence of code intelligence across various domains. Finally, we delve into both the opportunities and challenges associated with this field, alongside elucidating our insights on the most promising research directions. An ongoing, dynamically updated project and resources associated with this survey have been released at https://github.com/QiushiSun/NCISurvey.

------------

`[2403.14965] Comprehensive Evaluation and Insights into the Use of Large Language Models in the Automation of Behavior-Driven Development Acceptance Test Formulation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14965>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 05:37:52 GMT
    Shanthi Karpurapu, Sravanthy Myneni, Unnati Nettur, Likhit Sagar Gajja, Dave Burke, Tom Stiehm, and Jeffery Payne

Behavior-driven development (BDD) is an Agile testing methodology fostering collaboration among developers, QA analysts, and stakeholders. In this manuscript, we propose a novel approach to enhance BDD practices using large language models (LLMs) to automate acceptance test generation. Our study uses zero and few-shot prompts to evaluate LLMs such as GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Llama-2-13B, and PaLM-2. The paper presents a detailed methodology that includes the dataset, prompt techniques, LLMs, and the evaluation process. The results demonstrate that GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 generate error-free BDD acceptance tests with better performance. The few-shot prompt technique highlights its ability to provide higher accuracy by incorporating examples for in-context learning.
Furthermore, the study examines syntax errors, validation accuracy, and comparative analysis of LLMs, revealing their effectiveness in enhancing BDD practices. However, our study acknowledges that there are limitations to the proposed approach. We emphasize that this approach can support collaborative BDD processes and create opportunities for future research into automated BDD acceptance test generation using LLMs.

------------

`[2403.15076] Comprehensive Lipidomic Automation Workflow using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15076>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 10:00:52 GMT
    Connor Beveridge, Sanjay Iyer, Caitlin E. Randolph, Matthew Muhoberac, Palak Manchanda, Amy C. Clingenpeel, Shane Tichy, Gaurav Chopra

Lipidomics generates large data that makes manual annotation and interpretation challenging. Lipid chemical and structural diversity with structural isomers further complicates annotation. Although, several commercial and open-source software for targeted lipid identification exists, it lacks automated method generation workflows and integration with statistical and bioinformatics tools. We have developed the Comprehensive Lipidomic Automated Workflow (CLAW) platform with integrated workflow for parsing, detailed statistical analysis and lipid annotations based on custom multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) precursor and product ion pair transitions. CLAW contains several modules including identification of carbon-carbon double bond position(s) in unsaturated lipids when combined with ozone electrospray ionization (OzESI)-MRM methodology. To demonstrate the utility of the automated workflow in CLAW, large-scale lipidomics data was collected with traditional and OzESI-MRM profiling on biological and non-biological samples. Specifically, a total of 1497 transitions organized into 10 MRM-based mass spectrometry methods were used to profile lipid droplets isolated from different brain regions of 18-24 month-old Alzheimer's disease mice and age-matched wild-type controls. Additionally, triacyclglycerols (TGs) profiles with carbon-carbon double bond specificity were generated from canola oil samples using OzESI-MRM profiling. We also developed an integrated language user interface with large language models using artificially intelligent (AI) agents that permits users to interact with the CLAW platform using a chatbot terminal to perform statistical and bioinformatic analyses. We envision CLAW pipeline to be used in high-throughput lipid structural identification tasks aiding users to generate automated lipidomics workflows ranging from data acquisition to AI agent-based bioinformatic analysis.

------------

`[2403.15274] Bioinformatics and Biomedical Informatics with ChatGPT: Year One Review <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15274>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:16:23 GMT
    Jinge Wang, Zien Cheng, Qiuming Yao, Li Liu, Dong Xu, Gangqing Hu

The year 2023 marked a significant surge in the exploration of applying large language model (LLM) chatbots, notably ChatGPT, across various disciplines. We surveyed the applications of ChatGPT in various sectors of bioinformatics and biomedical informatics throughout the year, covering omics, genetics, biomedical text mining, drug discovery, biomedical image understanding, bioinformatics programming, and bioinformatics education. Our survey delineates the current strengths and limitations of this chatbot in bioinformatics and offers insights into potential avenues for future development.

------------

`[2403.15388] LLaVA-PruMerge: Adaptive Token Reduction for Efficient Large Multimodal Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15388>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:59:52 GMT
    Yuzhang Shang, Mu Cai, Bingxin Xu, Yong Jae Lee, Yan Yan

Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have shown significant reasoning capabilities by connecting a visual encoder and a large language model. LMMs typically use a fixed amount of visual tokens, such as the penultimate layer features in the CLIP visual encoder, as the prefix content. Recent LMMs incorporate more complex visual inputs, such as high-resolution images and videos, which increase the number of visual tokens significantly. However, due to the design of the Transformer architecture, computational costs associated with these models tend to increase quadratically with the number of input tokens. To tackle this problem, we explore a token reduction mechanism and find, similar to prior work, that many visual tokens are spatially redundant. Based on this, we propose PruMerge, a novel adaptive visual token reduction approach, which largely reduces the number of visual tokens while maintaining comparable model performance. We first select the unpruned visual tokens based on their similarity to class tokens and spatial tokens. We then cluster the pruned tokens based on key similarity and merge the clustered tokens with the unpruned tokens to supplement their information. Empirically, when applied to LLaVA-1.5, our approach can compress the visual tokens by 14.4 times on average, and achieve comparable performance across diverse visual question-answering and reasoning tasks. Code and checkpoints are at https://llava-prumerge.github.io/.

------------

`[2403.14651] DOSA: A Dataset of Social Artifacts from Different Indian Geographical Subcultures <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14651>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 20:10:18 GMT
    Agrima Seth, Sanchit Ahuja, Kalika Bali, Sunayana Sitaram

Generative models are increasingly being used in various applications, such as text generation, commonsense reasoning, and question-answering. To be effective globally, these models must be aware of and account for local socio-cultural contexts, making it necessary to have benchmarks to evaluate the models for their cultural familiarity. Since the training data for LLMs is web-based and the Web is limited in its representation of information, it does not capture knowledge present within communities that are not on the Web. Thus, these models exacerbate the inequities, semantic misalignment, and stereotypes from the Web. There has been a growing call for community-centered participatory research methods in NLP. In this work, we respond to this call by using participatory research methods to introduce $\textit{DOSA}$, the first community-generated $\textbf{D}$ataset $\textbf{o}$f 615 $\textbf{S}$ocial $\textbf{A}$rtifacts, by engaging with 260 participants from 19 different Indian geographic subcultures. We use a gamified framework that relies on collective sensemaking to collect the names and descriptions of these artifacts such that the descriptions semantically align with the shared sensibilities of the individuals from those cultures. Next, we benchmark four popular LLMs and find that they show significant variation across regional sub-cultures in their ability to infer the artifacts.

------------

`[2403.14661] Towards Modeling Learner Performance with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14661>`__

::

    Thu, 29 Feb 2024 14:06:34 GMT
    Seyed Parsa Neshaei, Richard Lee Davis, Adam Hazimeh, Bojan Lazarevski, Pierre Dillenbourg and Tanja K\"aser

Recent work exploring the capabilities of pre-trained large language models (LLMs) has demonstrated their ability to act as general pattern machines by completing complex token sequences representing a wide array of tasks, including time-series prediction and robot control. This paper investigates whether the pattern recognition and sequence modeling capabilities of LLMs can be extended to the domain of knowledge tracing, a critical component in the development of intelligent tutoring systems (ITSs) that tailor educational experiences by predicting learner performance over time. In an empirical evaluation across multiple real-world datasets, we compare two approaches to using LLMs for this task, zero-shot prompting and model fine-tuning, with existing, non-LLM approaches to knowledge tracing. While LLM-based approaches do not achieve state-of-the-art performance, fine-tuned LLMs surpass the performance of naive baseline models and perform on par with standard Bayesian Knowledge Tracing approaches across multiple metrics. These findings suggest that the pattern recognition capabilities of LLMs can be used to model complex learning trajectories, opening a novel avenue for applying LLMs to educational contexts. The paper concludes with a discussion of the implications of these findings for future research, suggesting that further refinements and a deeper understanding of LLMs' predictive mechanisms could lead to enhanced performance in knowledge tracing tasks.

------------

`[2403.14666] SyllabusQA: A Course Logistics Question Answering Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14666>`__

::

    Sun, 3 Mar 2024 03:01:14 GMT
    Nigel Fernandez, Alexander Scarlatos, Andrew Lan

Automated teaching assistants and chatbots have significant potential to reduce the workload of human instructors, especially for logistics-related question answering, which is important to students yet repetitive for instructors. However, due to privacy concerns, there is a lack of publicly available datasets. We introduce SyllabusQA, an open-source dataset with 63 real course syllabi covering 36 majors, containing 5,078 open-ended course logistics-related question-answer pairs that are diverse in both question types and answer formats. Since many logistics-related questions contain critical information like the date of an exam, it is important to evaluate the factuality of answers. We benchmark several strong baselines on this task, from large language model prompting to retrieval-augmented generation. We find that despite performing close to humans on traditional metrics of textual similarity, there remains a significant gap between automated approaches and humans in terms of fact precision.

------------

`[2403.14720] Defending Against Indirect Prompt Injection Attacks With Spotlighting <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14720>`__

::

    Wed, 20 Mar 2024 15:26:23 GMT
    Keegan Hines, Gary Lopez, Matthew Hall, Federico Zarfati, Yonatan Zunger, Emre Kiciman

Large Language Models (LLMs), while powerful, are built and trained to process a single text input. In common applications, multiple inputs can be processed by concatenating them together into a single stream of text. However, the LLM is unable to distinguish which sections of prompt belong to various input sources. Indirect prompt injection attacks take advantage of this vulnerability by embedding adversarial instructions into untrusted data being processed alongside user commands. Often, the LLM will mistake the adversarial instructions as user commands to be followed, creating a security vulnerability in the larger system. We introduce spotlighting, a family of prompt engineering techniques that can be used to improve LLMs' ability to distinguish among multiple sources of input. The key insight is to utilize transformations of an input to provide a reliable and continuous signal of its provenance. We evaluate spotlighting as a defense against indirect prompt injection attacks, and find that it is a robust defense that has minimal detrimental impact to underlying NLP tasks. Using GPT-family models, we find that spotlighting reduces the attack success rate from greater than {50}\% to below {2}\% in our experiments with minimal impact on task efficacy.

------------

`[2403.14727] Protected group bias and stereotypes in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14727>`__

::

    Thu, 21 Mar 2024 00:21:38 GMT
    Hadas Kotek, David Q. Sun, Zidi Xiu, Margit Bowler, Christopher Klein

As modern Large Language Models (LLMs) shatter many state-of-the-art benchmarks in a variety of domains, this paper investigates their behavior in the domains of ethics and fairness, focusing on protected group bias. We conduct a two-part study: first, we solicit sentence continuations describing the occupations of individuals from different protected groups, including gender, sexuality, religion, and race. Second, we have the model generate stories about individuals who hold different types of occupations. We collect >10k sentence completions made by a publicly available LLM, which we subject to human annotation. We find bias across minoritized groups, but in particular in the domains of gender and sexuality, as well as Western bias, in model generations. The model not only reflects societal biases, but appears to amplify them. The model is additionally overly cautious in replies to queries relating to minoritized groups, providing responses that strongly emphasize diversity and equity to an extent that other group characteristics are overshadowed. This suggests that artificially constraining potentially harmful outputs may itself lead to harm, and should be applied in a careful and controlled manner.

------------

`[2403.14870] VidLA: Video-Language Alignment at Scale <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14870>`__

::

    Thu, 21 Mar 2024 22:36:24 GMT
    Mamshad Nayeem Rizve, Fan Fei, Jayakrishnan Unnikrishnan, Son Tran, Benjamin Z. Yao, Belinda Zeng, Mubarak Shah, Trishul Chilimbi

In this paper, we propose VidLA, an approach for video-language alignment at scale. There are two major limitations of previous video-language alignment approaches. First, they do not capture both short-range and long-range temporal dependencies and typically employ complex hierarchical deep network architectures that are hard to integrate with existing pretrained image-text foundation models. To effectively address this limitation, we instead keep the network architecture simple and use a set of data tokens that operate at different temporal resolutions in a hierarchical manner, accounting for the temporally hierarchical nature of videos. By employing a simple two-tower architecture, we are able to initialize our video-language model with pretrained image-text foundation models, thereby boosting the final performance. Second, existing video-language alignment works struggle due to the lack of semantically aligned large-scale training data. To overcome it, we leverage recent LLMs to curate the largest video-language dataset to date with better visual grounding. Furthermore, unlike existing video-text datasets which only contain short clips, our dataset is enriched with video clips of varying durations to aid our temporally hierarchical data tokens in extracting better representations at varying temporal scales. Overall, empirical results show that our proposed approach surpasses state-of-the-art methods on multiple retrieval benchmarks, especially on longer videos, and performs competitively on classification benchmarks.

------------

`[2403.15062] Construction of a Japanese Financial Benchmark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15062>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 09:40:27 GMT
    Masanori Hirano

With the recent development of large language models (LLMs), models that focus on certain domains and languages have been discussed for their necessity.
There is also a growing need for benchmarks to evaluate the performance of current LLMs in each domain. Therefore, in this study, we constructed a benchmark comprising multiple tasks specific to the Japanese and financial domains and performed benchmark measurements on some models. Consequently, we confirmed that GPT-4 is currently outstanding, and that the constructed benchmarks function effectively. According to our analysis, our benchmark can differentiate benchmark scores among models in all performance ranges by combining tasks with different difficulties.

------------

`[2403.15214] InstaSynth: Opportunities and Challenges in Generating Synthetic Instagram Data with ChatGPT for Sponsored Content Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15214>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:58:42 GMT
    Thales Bertaglia, Lily Heisig, Rishabh Kaushal, Adriana Iamnitchi

Large Language Models (LLMs) raise concerns about lowering the cost of generating texts that could be used for unethical or illegal purposes, especially on social media. This paper investigates the promise of such models to help enforce legal requirements related to the disclosure of sponsored content online. We investigate the use of LLMs for generating synthetic Instagram captions with two objectives: The first objective (fidelity) is to produce realistic synthetic datasets. For this, we implement content-level and network-level metrics to assess whether synthetic captions are realistic. The second objective (utility) is to create synthetic data that is useful for sponsored content detection. For this, we evaluate the effectiveness of the generated synthetic data for training classifiers to identify undisclosed advertisements on Instagram. Our investigations show that the objectives of fidelity and utility may conflict and that prompt engineering is a useful but insufficient strategy. Additionally, we find that while individual synthetic posts may appear realistic, collectively they lack diversity, topic connectivity, and realistic user interaction patterns.

------------

`[2403.15226] Not All Attention is Needed: Parameter and Computation Efficient Transfer Learning for Multi-modal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15226>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 14:20:34 GMT
    Qiong Wu and Weihao Ye and Yiyi Zhou and Xiaoshuai Sun and Rongrong Ji

In this paper, we propose a novel parameter and computation efficient tuning method for Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs), termed Efficient Attention Skipping (EAS). Concretely, we first reveal that multi-head attentions (MHAs), the main computational overhead of MLLMs, are often redundant to downstream tasks. Based on this observation, EAS evaluates the attention redundancy and skips the less important MHAs to speed up inference.
Besides, we also propose a novel propagation-of-information adapter (PIA) to serve the attention skipping of EAS and keep parameter efficiency, which can be further re-parameterized into feed-forward networks (FFNs) for zero-extra latency. To validate EAS, we apply it to a recently proposed MLLM called LaVIN and a classic VL pre-trained model called METER, and conduct extensive experiments on a set of benchmarks. The experiments show that EAS not only retains high performance and parameter efficiency, but also greatly speeds up inference speed. For instance, LaVIN-EAS can obtain 89.98\% accuracy on ScineceQA while speeding up inference by 2.2 times to LaVIN

------------

`[2403.15246] FollowIR: Evaluating and Teaching Information Retrieval Models to Follow Instructions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15246>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 14:42:29 GMT
    Orion Weller, Benjamin Chang, Sean MacAvaney, Kyle Lo, Arman Cohan, Benjamin Van Durme, Dawn Lawrie, Luca Soldaini

Modern Large Language Models (LLMs) are capable of following long and complex instructions that enable a diverse amount of user tasks. However, despite Information Retrieval (IR) models using LLMs as the backbone of their architectures, nearly all of them still only take queries as input, with no instructions. For the handful of recent models that do take instructions, it's unclear how they use them. We introduce our dataset FollowIR, which contains a rigorous instruction evaluation benchmark as well as a training set for helping IR models learn to better follow real-world instructions. FollowIR builds off the long history of the TREC conferences: as TREC provides human annotators with instructions (also known as narratives) to determine document relevance, so should IR models be able to understand and decide relevance based on these detailed instructions. Our evaluation benchmark starts with three deeply judged TREC collections and alters the annotator instructions, re-annotating relevant documents. Through this process, we can measure how well IR models follow instructions, through a new pairwise evaluation framework. Our results indicate that existing retrieval models fail to correctly use instructions, using them for basic keywords and struggling to understand long-form information. However, we show that it is possible for IR models to learn to follow complex instructions: our new FollowIR-7B model has significant improvements (over 13%) after fine-tuning on our training set.

------------

`[2403.14709] ClimateQ&A: Bridging the gap between climate scientists and the general public <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14709>`__

::

    Mon, 18 Mar 2024 08:16:02 GMT
    Natalia De La Calzada, Th\'eo Alves Da Costa, Annabelle Blangero, Nicolas Chesneau

This research paper investigates public views on climate change and biodiversity loss by analyzing questions asked to the ClimateQ&A platform.
ClimateQ&A is a conversational agent that uses LLMs to respond to queries based on over 14,000 pages of scientific literature from the IPCC and IPBES reports.
Launched online in March 2023, the tool has gathered over 30,000 questions, mainly from a French audience. Its chatbot interface allows for the free formulation of questions related to nature*. While its main goal is to make nature science more accessible, it also allows for the collection and analysis of questions and their themes. Unlike traditional surveys involving closed questions, this novel method offers a fresh perspective on individual interrogations about nature. Running NLP clustering algorithms on a sample of 3,425 questions, we find that a significant 25.8% inquire about how climate change and biodiversity loss will affect them personally (e.g., where they live or vacation, their consumption habits) and the specific impacts of their actions on nature (e.g., transportation or food choices). This suggests that traditional methods of surveying may not identify all existing knowledge gaps, and that relying solely on IPCC and IPBES reports may not address all individual inquiries about climate and biodiversity, potentially affecting public understanding and action on these issues. *we use 'nature' as an umbrella term for 'climate change' and 'biodiversity loss'

------------

`[2403.14714] Compiler generated feedback for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14714>`__

::

    Mon, 18 Mar 2024 23:25:13 GMT
    Dejan Grubisic, Chris Cummins, Volker Seeker, Hugh Leather

We introduce a novel paradigm in compiler optimization powered by Large Language Models with compiler feedback to optimize the code size of LLVM assembly. The model takes unoptimized LLVM IR as input and produces optimized IR, the best optimization passes, and instruction counts of both unoptimized and optimized IRs. Then we compile the input with generated optimization passes and evaluate if the predicted instruction count is correct, generated IR is compilable, and corresponds to compiled code. We provide this feedback back to LLM and give it another chance to optimize code. This approach adds an extra 0.53% improvement over -Oz to the original model. Even though, adding more information with feedback seems intuitive, simple sampling techniques achieve much higher performance given 10 or more samples.

------------

`[2403.14719] Bypassing LLM Watermarks with Color-Aware Substitutions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14719>`__

::

    Tue, 19 Mar 2024 17:54:39 GMT
    Qilong Wu, Varun Chandrasekaran

Watermarking approaches are proposed to identify if text being circulated is human or large language model (LLM) generated. The state-of-the-art watermarking strategy of Kirchenbauer et al. (2023a) biases the LLM to generate specific (``green'') tokens. However, determining the robustness of this watermarking method is an open problem. Existing attack methods fail to evade detection for longer text segments. We overcome this limitation, and propose {\em Self Color Testing-based Substitution (SCTS)}, the first ``color-aware'' attack. SCTS obtains color information by strategically prompting the watermarked LLM and comparing output tokens frequencies. It uses this information to determine token colors, and substitutes green tokens with non-green ones. In our experiments, SCTS successfully evades watermark detection using fewer number of edits than related work. Additionally, we show both theoretically and empirically that SCTS can remove the watermark for arbitrarily long watermarked text.

------------

`[2403.15230] An Exploratory Investigation into Code License Infringements in Large Language Model Training Datasets <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15230>`__

::

    Fri, 22 Mar 2024 14:23:21 GMT
    Jonathan Katzy and R\u{a}zvan-Mihai Popescu and Arie van Deursen and Maliheh Izadi

Does the training of large language models potentially infringe upon code licenses? Furthermore, are there any datasets available that can be safely used for training these models without violating such licenses? In our study, we assess the current trends in the field and the importance of incorporating code into the training of large language models. Additionally, we examine publicly available datasets to see whether these models can be trained on them without the risk of legal issues in the future. To accomplish this, we compiled a list of 53 large language models trained on file-level code. We then extracted their datasets and analyzed how much they overlap with a dataset we created, consisting exclusively of strong copyleft code.
Our analysis revealed that every dataset we examined contained license inconsistencies, despite being selected based on their associated repository licenses. We analyzed a total of 514 million code files, discovering 38 million exact duplicates present in our strong copyleft dataset. Additionally, we examined 171 million file-leading comments, identifying 16 million with strong copyleft licenses and another 11 million comments that discouraged copying without explicitly mentioning a license. Based on the findings of our study, which highlights the pervasive issue of license inconsistencies in large language models trained on code, our recommendation for both researchers and the community is to prioritize the development and adoption of best practices for dataset creation and management.

------------

`[2312.00812] Empowering Autonomous Driving with Large Language Models: A Safety Perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00812>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:29:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Yixuan Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 28 Nov 2023 03:13:09 UTC (1,760 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 13 Dec 2023 05:29:20 UTC (1,761 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 18 Dec 2023 19:35:54 UTC (1,761 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:29:01 UTC (2,247 KB)
    Yixuan Wang, Ruochen Jiao, Sinong Simon Zhan, Chengtian Lang, Chao Huang, Zhaoran Wang, Zhuoran Yang, Qi Zhu

Autonomous Driving (AD) encounters significant safety hurdles in long-tail unforeseen driving scenarios, largely stemming from the non-interpretability and poor generalization of the deep neural networks within the AD system, particularly in out-of-distribution and uncertain data. To this end, this paper explores the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) into AD systems, leveraging their robust common-sense knowledge and reasoning abilities. The proposed methodologies employ LLMs as intelligent decision-makers in behavioral planning, augmented with a safety verifier shield for contextual safety learning, for enhancing driving performance and safety. We present two key studies in a simulated environment: an adaptive LLM-conditioned Model Predictive Control (MPC) and an LLM-enabled interactive behavior planning scheme with a state machine. Demonstrating superior performance and safety metrics compared to state-of-the-art approaches, our approach shows the promising potential for using LLMs for autonomous vehicles.

------------

`[2304.14178] mPLUG-Owl: Modularization Empowers Large Language Models with Multimodality <https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.14178>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 07:23:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Qinghao Ye [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 27 Apr 2023 13:27:01 UTC (32,001 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 07:23:22 UTC (32,001 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 08:13:38 UTC (32,001 KB)
    Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang Wang, Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, Chenliang Li, Yuanhong Xu, Hehong Chen, Junfeng Tian, Qi Qian, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jingren Zhou

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive zero-shot abilities on a variety of open-ended tasks, while recent research has also explored the use of LLMs for multi-modal generation. In this study, we introduce mPLUG-Owl, a novel training paradigm that equips LLMs with multi-modal abilities through modularized learning of foundation LLM, a visual knowledge module, and a visual abstractor module. This approach can support multiple modalities and facilitate diverse unimodal and multimodal abilities through modality collaboration. The training paradigm of mPLUG-Owl involves a two-stage method for aligning image and text, which learns visual knowledge with the assistance of LLM while maintaining and even improving the generation abilities of LLM. In the first stage, the visual knowledge module and abstractor module are trained with a frozen LLM module to align the image and text. In the second stage, language-only and multi-modal supervised datasets are used to jointly fine-tune a low-rank adaption (LoRA) module on LLM and the abstractor module by freezing the visual knowledge module. We carefully build a visually-related instruction evaluation set OwlEval. Experimental results show that our model outperforms existing multi-modal models, demonstrating mPLUG-Owl's impressive instruction and visual understanding ability, multi-turn conversation ability, and knowledge reasoning ability. Besides, we observe some unexpected and exciting abilities such as multi-image correlation and scene text understanding, which makes it possible to leverage it for harder real scenarios, such as vision-only document comprehension. Our code, pre-trained model, instruction-tuned models, and evaluation set are available at this https URL. The online demo is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2305.07766] NL2TL: Transforming Natural Languages to Temporal Logics using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07766>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 00:28:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Yongchao Chen [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 May 2023 21:22:08 UTC (9,486 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 00:28:51 UTC (9,486 KB)
    Yongchao Chen, Rujul Gandhi, Yang Zhang, Chuchu Fan

Temporal Logic (TL) can be used to rigorously specify complex high-level specification for systems in many engineering applications. The translation between natural language (NL) and TL has been under-explored due to the lack of dataset and generalizable model across different application domains. In this paper, we propose an accurate and generalizable transformation framework of English instructions from NL to TL, exploring the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) at multiple stages. Our contributions are twofold. First, we develop a framework to create a dataset of NL-TL pairs combining LLMs and human annotation. We publish a dataset with 28K NL-TL pairs. Then, we finetune T5 models on the lifted versions (i.e., the specific Atomic Propositions (AP) are hidden) of the NL and TL. The enhanced generalizability originates from two aspects: 1) Usage of lifted NL-TL characterizes common logical structures, without constraints of specific domains. 2) Application of LLMs in dataset creation largely enhances corpus richness. We test the generalization of trained models on five varied domains. To achieve full NL-TL transformation, we either combine the lifted model with AP recognition task or do the further finetuning on each specific domain. During the further finetuning, our model achieves higher accuracy (>95%) using only <10% training data, compared with the baseline sequence to sequence (Seq2Seq) model.

------------

`[2305.09955] Knowledge Card: Filling LLMs' Knowledge Gaps with Plug-in Specialized Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09955>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 04:04:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Shangbin Feng [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 17 May 2023 05:25:27 UTC (524 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 19 Oct 2023 03:37:39 UTC (549 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 04:04:41 UTC (559 KB)
    Shangbin Feng, Weijia Shi, Yuyang Bai, Vidhisha Balachandran, Tianxing He, Yulia Tsvetkov

By design, large language models (LLMs) are static general-purpose models, expensive to retrain or update frequently. As they are increasingly adopted for knowledge-intensive tasks, it becomes evident that these design choices lead to failures to generate factual, relevant, and up-to-date knowledge. To this end, we propose Knowledge Card, a modular framework to plug in new factual and relevant knowledge into general-purpose LLMs. We first introduce knowledge cards -- specialized language models trained on corpora from specific domains and sources. Knowledge cards serve as parametric repositories that are selected at inference time to generate background knowledge for the base LLM. We then propose three content selectors to dynamically select and retain information in documents generated by knowledge cards, specifically controlling for relevance, brevity, and factuality of outputs. Finally, we propose two complementary integration approaches to augment the base LLM with the (relevant, factual) knowledge curated from the specialized LMs. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that Knowledge Card achieves state-of-the-art performance on six benchmark datasets. Ultimately, Knowledge Card framework enables dynamic synthesis and updates of knowledge from diverse domains. Its modularity will ensure that relevant knowledge can be continuously updated through the collective efforts of the research community.

------------

`[2308.12038] Large Multilingual Models Pivot Zero-Shot Multimodal Learning across Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12038>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 02:24:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinyi Hu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 23 Aug 2023 09:55:41 UTC (7,156 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 16:15:38 UTC (7,473 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 02:24:57 UTC (7,473 KB)
    Jinyi Hu, Yuan Yao, Chongyi Wang, Shan Wang, Yinxu Pan, Qianyu Chen, Tianyu Yu, Hanghao Wu, Yue Zhao, Haoye Zhang, Xu Han, Yankai Lin, Jiao Xue, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

Recently there has been a significant surge in multimodal learning in terms of both image-to-text and text-to-image generation. However, the success is typically limited to English, leaving other languages largely behind. Building a competitive counterpart in other languages is highly challenging due to the low-resource nature of non-English multimodal data (i.e., lack of large-scale, high-quality image-text data). In this work, we propose MPM, an effective training paradigm for training large multimodal models in non-English languages. MPM demonstrates that Multilingual language models can Pivot zero-shot Multimodal learning across languages. Specifically, based on a strong multilingual large language model, multimodal models pretrained on English-only image-text data can well generalize to other languages in a (quasi)-zero-shot manner, even surpassing models trained on image-text data in native languages. Taking Chinese as a practice of MPM, we build large multimodal models VisCPM in image-to-text and text-to-image generation, which achieve state-of-the-art (open-source) performance in Chinese. To facilitate future research, we open-source codes and model weights at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.15851] Self-Guard: Empower the LLM to Safeguard Itself <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15851>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 10:02:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Zezhong Wang Mr. [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 24 Oct 2023 14:08:26 UTC (745 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 10:02:11 UTC (863 KB)
    Zezhong Wang, Fangkai Yang, Lu Wang, Pu Zhao, Hongru Wang, Liang Chen, Qingwei Lin, Kam-Fai Wong

The jailbreak attack can bypass the safety measures of a Large Language Model (LLM), generating harmful content. This misuse of LLM has led to negative societal consequences. Currently, there are two main approaches to address jailbreak attacks: safety training and safeguards. Safety training focuses on further training LLM to enhance its safety. On the other hand, safeguards involve implementing external models or filters to prevent harmful outputs. However, safety training has constraints in its ability to adapt to new attack types and often leads to a drop in model performance. Safeguards have proven to be of limited help. To tackle these issues, we propose a novel approach called Self-Guard, which combines the strengths of both safety methods. Self-Guard includes two stages. In the first stage, we enhance the model's ability to assess harmful content, and in the second stage, we instruct the model to consistently perform harmful content detection on its own responses. The experiment has demonstrated that Self-Guard is robust against jailbreak attacks. In the bad case analysis, we find that LLM occasionally provides harmless responses to harmful queries. Additionally, we evaluated the general capabilities of the LLM before and after safety training, providing evidence that Self-Guard does not result in the LLM's performance degradation. In sensitivity tests, Self-Guard not only avoids inducing over-sensitivity in LLM but also can even mitigate this issue.

------------

`[2311.00117] BadLlama: cheaply removing safety fine-tuning from Llama 2-Chat 13B <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00117>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 21 Mar 2024 18:40:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Pranav Gade [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 31 Oct 2023 19:45:15 UTC (7,171 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 18:40:32 UTC (7,171 KB)
    Pranav Gade and Simon Lermen and Charlie Rogers-Smith and Jeffrey Ladish

Llama 2-Chat is a collection of large language models that Meta developed and released to the public. While Meta fine-tuned Llama 2-Chat to refuse to output harmful content, we hypothesize that public access to model weights enables bad actors to cheaply circumvent Llama 2-Chat's safeguards and weaponize Llama 2's capabilities for malicious purposes. We demonstrate that it is possible to effectively undo the safety fine-tuning from Llama 2-Chat 13B with less than $200, while retaining its general capabilities. Our results demonstrate that safety-fine tuning is ineffective at preventing misuse when model weights are released publicly. Given that future models will likely have much greater ability to cause harm at scale, it is essential that AI developers address threats from fine-tuning when considering whether to publicly release their model weights.

------------

`[2311.09682] MacGyver: Are Large Language Models Creative Problem Solvers? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09682>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 21 Mar 2024 22:44:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Yufei Tian [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 08:52:27 UTC (6,580 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 22:44:41 UTC (8,340 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 27 Mar 2024 23:43:54 UTC (8,340 KB)
    Yufei Tian, Abhilasha Ravichander, Lianhui Qin, Ronan Le Bras, Raja Marjieh, Nanyun Peng, Yejin Choi, Thomas L. Griffiths, Faeze Brahman

We explore the creative problem-solving capabilities of modern LLMs in a novel constrained setting. To this end, we create MACGYVER, an automatically generated dataset consisting of over 1,600 real-world problems deliberately designed to trigger innovative usage of objects and necessitate out-of-the-box thinking. We then present our collection to both LLMs and humans to compare and contrast their problem-solving abilities. MACGYVER is challenging for both groups, but in unique and complementary ways. For instance, humans excel in tasks they are familiar with but struggle with domain-specific knowledge, leading to a higher variance. In contrast, LLMs, exposed to a variety of specialized knowledge, attempt broader problems but fail by proposing physically-infeasible actions. Finally, we provide a detailed error analysis of LLMs, and demonstrate the potential of enhancing their problem-solving ability with novel prompting techniques such as iterative step-wise reflection and divergent-convergent thinking.
This work (1) introduces a fresh arena for intelligent agents focusing on intricate aspects of physical reasoning, planning, and unconventional thinking, which supplements the existing spectrum of machine intelligence; and (2) provides insight into the constrained problem-solving capabilities of both humans and AI.

------------

`[2312.17543] Building Efficient Universal Classifiers with Natural Language Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17543>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:12:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Moritz Laurer [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 29 Dec 2023 10:18:36 UTC (7,565 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:12:49 UTC (7,578 KB)
    Moritz Laurer, Wouter van Atteveldt, Andreu Casas, Kasper Welbers

Generative Large Language Models (LLMs) have become the mainstream choice for fewshot and zeroshot learning thanks to the universality of text generation. Many users, however, do not need the broad capabilities of generative LLMs when they only want to automate a classification task. Smaller BERT-like models can also learn universal tasks, which allow them to do any text classification task without requiring fine-tuning (zeroshot classification) or to learn new tasks with only a few examples (fewshot), while being significantly more efficient than generative LLMs. This paper (1) explains how Natural Language Inference (NLI) can be used as a universal classification task that follows similar principles as instruction fine-tuning of generative LLMs, (2) provides a step-by-step guide with reusable Jupyter notebooks for building a universal classifier, and (3) shares the resulting universal classifier that is trained on 33 datasets with 389 diverse classes. Parts of the code we share has been used to train our older zeroshot classifiers that have been downloaded more than 55 million times via the Hugging Face Hub as of December 2023. Our new classifier improves zeroshot performance by 9.4%.

------------

`[2402.14428] KoCoSa: Korean Context-aware Sarcasm Detection Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14428>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:29:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Yumin Kim [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 10:17:57 UTC (1,545 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:29:26 UTC (1,782 KB)
    Yumin Kim, Heejae Suh, Mingi Kim, Dongyeon Won and Hwanhee Lee

Sarcasm is a way of verbal irony where someone says the opposite of what they mean, often to ridicule a person, situation, or idea. It is often difficult to detect sarcasm in the dialogue since detecting sarcasm should reflect the context (i.e., dialogue history). In this paper, we introduce a new dataset for the Korean dialogue sarcasm detection task, KoCoSa (Korean Context-aware Sarcasm Detection Dataset), which consists of 12.8K daily Korean dialogues and the labels for this task on the last response. To build the dataset, we propose an efficient sarcasm detection dataset generation pipeline: 1) generating new sarcastic dialogues from source dialogues with large language models, 2) automatic and manual filtering of abnormal and toxic dialogues, and 3) human annotation for the sarcasm detection task. We also provide a simple but effective baseline for the Korean sarcasm detection task trained on our dataset. Experimental results on the dataset show that our baseline system outperforms strong baselines like large language models, such as GPT-3.5, in the Korean sarcasm detection task. We show that the sarcasm detection task relies deeply on the existence of sufficient context. We will release the dataset at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.14704] An LLM-Enhanced Adversarial Editing System for Lexical Simplification <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14704>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:45:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Keren Tan [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 17:04:30 UTC (481 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 03:42:00 UTC (481 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:45:51 UTC (481 KB)
    Keren Tan, Kangyang Luo, Yunshi Lan, Zheng Yuan, Jinlong Shu

Lexical Simplification (LS) aims to simplify text at the lexical level. Existing methods rely heavily on annotated data, making it challenging to apply in low-resource scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel LS method without parallel corpora. This method employs an Adversarial Editing System with guidance from a confusion loss and an invariance loss to predict lexical edits in the original sentences. Meanwhile, we introduce an innovative LLM-enhanced loss to enable the distillation of knowledge from Large Language Models (LLMs) into a small-size LS system. From that, complex words within sentences are masked and a Difficulty-aware Filling module is crafted to replace masked positions with simpler words. At last, extensive experimental results and analyses on three benchmark LS datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method.

------------

`[2403.00411] Cross-Lingual Learning vs. Low-Resource Fine-Tuning: A Case Study with Fact-Checking in Turkish <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00411>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:54:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Recep Firat Cekinel [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 09:57:46 UTC (1,195 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:54:03 UTC (1,195 KB)
    Recep Firat Cekinel, Pinar Karagoz, Cagri Coltekin

The rapid spread of misinformation through social media platforms has raised concerns regarding its impact on public opinion. While misinformation is prevalent in other languages, the majority of research in this field has concentrated on the English language. Hence, there is a scarcity of datasets for other languages, including Turkish. To address this concern, we have introduced the FCTR dataset, consisting of 3238 real-world claims. This dataset spans multiple domains and incorporates evidence collected from three Turkish fact-checking organizations. Additionally, we aim to assess the effectiveness of cross-lingual transfer learning for low-resource languages, with a particular focus on Turkish. We demonstrate in-context learning (zero-shot and few-shot) performance of large language models in this context. The experimental results indicate that the dataset has the potential to advance research in the Turkish language.

------------

`[2403.09738] Evaluating Large Language Models as Generative User Simulators for Conversational Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09738>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 01:08:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Se-Eun Yoon [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 13 Mar 2024 18:16:21 UTC (1,106 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 19 Mar 2024 18:35:40 UTC (1,105 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 01:08:42 UTC (1,097 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 25 Mar 2024 23:53:01 UTC (1,098 KB)
    Se-eun Yoon, Zhankui He, Jessica Maria Echterhoff, Julian McAuley

Synthetic users are cost-effective proxies for real users in the evaluation of conversational recommender systems. Large language models show promise in simulating human-like behavior, raising the question of their ability to represent a diverse population of users. We introduce a new protocol to measure the degree to which language models can accurately emulate human behavior in conversational recommendation. This protocol is comprised of five tasks, each designed to evaluate a key property that a synthetic user should exhibit: choosing which items to talk about, expressing binary preferences, expressing open-ended preferences, requesting recommendations, and giving feedback. Through evaluation of baseline simulators, we demonstrate these tasks effectively reveal deviations of language models from human behavior, and offer insights on how to reduce the deviations with model selection and prompting strategies.

------------

`[2403.09919] Recurrent Drafter for Fast Speculative Decoding in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09919>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 16:06:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Aonan Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 23:40:56 UTC (590 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 16:06:42 UTC (590 KB)
    Aonan Zhang, Chong Wang, Yi Wang, Xuanyu Zhang, Yunfei Cheng

In this paper, we introduce an improved approach of speculative decoding aimed at enhancing the efficiency of serving large language models. Our method capitalizes on the strengths of two established techniques: the classic two-model speculative decoding approach, and the more recent single-model approach, Medusa. Drawing inspiration from Medusa, our approach adopts a single-model strategy for speculative decoding. However, our method distinguishes itself by employing a single, lightweight draft head with a recurrent dependency design, akin in essence to the small, draft model uses in classic speculative decoding, but without the complexities of the full transformer architecture. And because of the recurrent dependency, we can use beam search to swiftly filter out undesired candidates with the draft head. The outcome is a method that combines the simplicity of single-model design and avoids the need to create a data-dependent tree attention structure only for inference in Medusa. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on several popular open source language models, along with a comprehensive analysis of the trade-offs involved in adopting this approach.

------------

`[2403.10822] Do Large Language Models understand Medical Codes? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10822>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 21 Mar 2024 23:47:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Simon A. Lee [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 16 Mar 2024 06:18:15 UTC (281 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 23:47:24 UTC (520 KB)
    Simon A. Lee, Timothy Lindsey

The overarching goal of recent AI research has been to make steady progress towards achieving Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), prompting the evaluation of Large Language Models (LLMs) across a variety of tasks and domains. One such domain is healthcare, where LLMs can greatly benefit clinical practice by assisting with a wide range of tasks. However, these models are also prone to producing ``hallucinations" or incorrect responses when faced with queries they cannot adequately address, raising concerns and skepticism, especially within the healthcare community. In this work, we investigate whether LLMs understand and can predict medical codes, which are extensively utilized in healthcare practice. This study aims to delineate the capabilities and limitations of these LLMs. We evaluate various off-the-shelf LLMs (e.g., GPT, LLaMA, etc.) and LLMs specifically designed for biomedical applications to assess their awareness and understanding of these domain-specific terminologies. Our results indicate that these models as they currently stand do not comprehend the meaning of the medical codes, highlighting the need for better representation of these alphanumeric codes extensively used in healthcare. We call for improved strategies to effectively capture and represent the nuances of medical codes and terminologies within LLMs, enabling them to become more reliable and trustworthy tools for healthcare professionals.

------------

`[2403.12373] RankPrompt: Step-by-Step Comparisons Make Language Models Better Reasoners <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12373>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:18:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Hu Chi [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 19 Mar 2024 02:34:18 UTC (132 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 06:01:48 UTC (132 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 06:18:54 UTC (132 KB)
    Chi Hu, Yuan Ge, Xiangnan Ma, Hang Cao, Qiang Li, Yonghua Yang, Tong Xiao, Jingbo Zhu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved impressive performance across various reasoning tasks. However, even state-of-the-art LLMs such as ChatGPT are prone to logical errors during their reasoning processes. Existing solutions, such as deploying task-specific verifiers or voting over multiple reasoning paths, either require extensive human annotations or fail in scenarios with inconsistent responses. To address these challenges, we introduce RankPrompt, a new prompting method that enables LLMs to self-rank their responses without additional resources. RankPrompt breaks down the ranking problem into a series of comparisons among diverse responses, leveraging the inherent capabilities of LLMs to generate chains of comparison as contextual exemplars. Our experiments across 11 arithmetic and commonsense reasoning tasks show that RankPrompt significantly enhances the reasoning performance of ChatGPT and GPT-4, with improvements of up to 13%. Moreover, RankPrompt excels in LLM-based automatic evaluations for open-ended tasks, aligning with human judgments 74% of the time in the AlpacaEval dataset. It also exhibits robustness to variations in response order and consistency. Collectively, our results validate RankPrompt as an effective method for eliciting high-quality feedback from language models.

------------

`[2403.13592] Llama meets EU: Investigating the European Political Spectrum through the Lens of LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13592>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:37:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Stephanie Brandl [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Mar 2024 13:42:57 UTC (4,766 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:37:28 UTC (4,766 KB)
    Ilias Chalkidis and Stephanie Brandl

Instruction-finetuned Large Language Models inherit clear political leanings that have been shown to influence downstream task performance. We expand this line of research beyond the two-party system in the US and audit Llama Chat in the context of EU politics in various settings to analyze the model's political knowledge and its ability to reason in context. We adapt, i.e., further fine-tune, Llama Chat on speeches of individual euro-parties from debates in the European Parliament to reevaluate its political leaning based on the EUandI questionnaire. Llama Chat shows considerable knowledge of national parties' positions and is capable of reasoning in context. The adapted, party-specific, models are substantially re-aligned towards respective positions which we see as a starting point for using chat-based LLMs as data-driven conversational engines to assist research in political science.

------------

`[2403.13679] RoleInteract: Evaluating the Social Interaction of Role-Playing Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13679>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 00:49:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Hongzhan Chen [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Mar 2024 15:38:36 UTC (8,386 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 04:06:06 UTC (8,386 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 00:49:59 UTC (8,386 KB)
    Hongzhan Chen, Hehong Chen, Ming Yan, Wenshen Xu, Xing Gao, Weizhou Shen, Xiaojun Quan, Chenliang Li, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jingren Zhou

Large language models (LLMs) have advanced the development of various AI conversational agents, including role-playing conversational agents that mimic diverse characters and human behaviors. While prior research has predominantly focused on enhancing the conversational capability, role-specific knowledge, and stylistic attributes of these agents, there has been a noticeable gap in assessing their social intelligence. In this paper, we introduce RoleInteract, the first benchmark designed to systematically evaluate the sociality of role-playing conversational agents at both individual and group levels of social interactions. The benchmark is constructed from a variety of sources and covers a wide range of 500 characters and over 6,000 question prompts and 30,800 multi-turn role-playing utterances. We conduct comprehensive evaluations on this benchmark using mainstream open-source and closed-source LLMs. We find that agents excelling in individual level does not imply their proficiency in group level. Moreover, the behavior of individuals may drift as a result of the influence exerted by other agents within the group. Experimental results on RoleInteract confirm its significance as a testbed for assessing the social interaction of role-playing conversational agents. The benchmark is publicly accessible at this https URL.

------------

`[2403.14221] Improving the Robustness of Large Language Models via Consistency Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14221>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 12:34:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Yukun Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 08:21:12 UTC (3,488 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 12:34:47 UTC (3,488 KB)
    Yukun Zhao, Lingyong Yan, Weiwei Sun, Guoliang Xing, Shuaiqiang Wang, Chong Meng, Zhicong Cheng, Zhaochun Ren, Dawei Yin

Large language models (LLMs) have shown tremendous success in following user instructions and generating helpful responses. Nevertheless, their robustness is still far from optimal, as they may generate significantly inconsistent responses due to minor changes in the verbalized instructions. Recent literature has explored this inconsistency issue, highlighting the importance of continued improvement in the robustness of response generation. However, systematic analysis and solutions are still lacking. In this paper, we quantitatively define the inconsistency problem and propose a two-stage training framework consisting of instruction-augmented supervised fine-tuning and consistency alignment training. The first stage helps a model generalize on following instructions via similar instruction augmentations. In the second stage, we improve the diversity and help the model understand which responses are more aligned with human expectations by differentiating subtle differences in similar responses. The training process is accomplished by self-rewards inferred from the trained model at the first stage without referring to external human preference resources. We conduct extensive experiments on recent publicly available LLMs on instruction-following tasks and demonstrate the effectiveness of our training framework.

------------

`[2310.15929] E-Sparse: Boosting the Large Language Model Inference through Entropy-based N:M Sparsity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15929>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 09:18:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Yun Li [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 24 Oct 2023 15:27:15 UTC (1,124 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 09:18:24 UTC (9,603 KB)
    Yun Li, Lin Niu, Xipeng Zhang, Kai Liu, Jianchen Zhu, Zhanhui Kang

Traditional pruning methods are known to be challenging to work in Large Language Models (LLMs) for Generative AI because of their unaffordable training process and large computational demands. For the first time, we introduce the information entropy of hidden state features into a pruning metric design, namely E-Sparse, to improve the accuracy of N:M sparsity on LLM. E-Sparse employs the information richness to leverage the channel importance, and further incorporates several novel techniques to put it into effect: (1) it introduces information entropy to enhance the significance of parameter weights and input feature norms as a novel pruning metric, and performs N:M sparsity without modifying the remaining weights. (2) it designs global naive shuffle and local block shuffle to quickly optimize the information distribution and adequately cope with the impact of N:M sparsity on LLMs' accuracy. E-Sparse is implemented as a Sparse-GEMM on FasterTransformer and runs on NVIDIA Ampere GPUs. Extensive experiments on the LLaMA family and OPT models show that E-Sparse can significantly speed up the model inference over the dense model (up to 1.53X) and obtain significant memory saving (up to 43.52%), with acceptable accuracy loss.

------------

`[2402.15220] ChunkAttention: Efficient Self-Attention with Prefix-Aware KV Cache and Two-Phase Partition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15220>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 09:03:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Lu Ye [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 09:29:19 UTC (506 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 09:03:10 UTC (512 KB)
    Lu Ye, Ze Tao, Yong Huang and Yang Li

Self-attention is an essential component of large language models(LLMs) but a significant source of inference latency for long sequences. In multi-tenant LLMs serving scenarios, the compute and memory operation cost of self-attention can be optimized by using the probability that multiple LLM requests have shared system prompts in prefixes. In this paper, we introduce ChunkAttention, a prefix-aware self-attention module that can detect matching prompt prefixes across multiple requests and share their key/value tensors in memory at runtime to improve the memory utilization of KV cache. This is achieved by breaking monolithic key/value tensors into smaller chunks and structuring them into the auxiliary prefix tree. Consequently, on top of the prefix-tree based KV cache, we design an efficient self-attention kernel, where a two-phase partition algorithm is implemented to improve the data locality during self-attention computation in the presence of shared system prompts. Experiments show that ChunkAttention can speed up the self-attention kernel by 3.2-4.8$\times$ compared to the start-of-the-art implementation, with the length of the system prompt ranging from 1024 to 4096.

------------

`[2403.08763] Simple and Scalable Strategies to Continually Pre-train Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08763>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:56:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Benjamin Thrien [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 13 Mar 2024 17:58:57 UTC (10,694 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:56:38 UTC (10,732 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 26 Mar 2024 17:58:48 UTC (10,732 KB)
    Adam Ibrahim, Benjamin Th\'erien, Kshitij Gupta, Mats L. Richter, Quentin Anthony, Timoth\'ee Lesort, Eugene Belilovsky, and Irina Rish

Large language models (LLMs) are routinely pre-trained on billions of tokens, only to start the process over again once new data becomes available. A much more efficient solution is to continually pre-train these models, saving significant compute compared to re-training. However, the distribution shift induced by new data typically results in degraded performance on previous data or poor adaptation to the new data. In this work, we show that a simple and scalable combination of learning rate (LR) re-warming, LR re-decaying, and replay of previous data is sufficient to match the performance of fully re-training from scratch on all available data, as measured by the final loss and the average score on several language model (LM) evaluation benchmarks. Specifically, we show this for a weak but realistic distribution shift between two commonly used LLM pre-training datasets (English$\rightarrow$English) and a stronger distribution shift (English$\rightarrow$German) at the $405$M parameter model scale with large dataset sizes (hundreds of billions of tokens). Selecting the weak but realistic shift for larger-scale experiments, we also find that our continual learning strategies match the re-training baseline for a 10B parameter LLM. Our results demonstrate that LLMs can be successfully updated via simple and scalable continual learning strategies, matching the re-training baseline using only a fraction of the compute. Finally, inspired by previous work, we propose alternatives to the cosine learning rate schedule that help circumvent forgetting induced by LR re-warming and that are not bound to a fixed token budget.

------------

`[2309.12276] LLMR: Real-time Prompting of Interactive Worlds using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12276>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:28:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Andrzej Banburski-Fahey [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 17:37:01 UTC (17,211 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 19 Dec 2023 01:49:45 UTC (37,452 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:28:17 UTC (37,215 KB)
    Fernanda De La Torre, Cathy Mengying Fang, Han Huang, Andrzej Banburski-Fahey, Judith Amores Fernandez, Jaron Lanier

We present Large Language Model for Mixed Reality (LLMR), a framework for the real-time creation and modification of interactive Mixed Reality experiences using LLMs. LLMR leverages novel strategies to tackle difficult cases where ideal training data is scarce, or where the design goal requires the synthesis of internal dynamics, intuitive analysis, or advanced interactivity. Our framework relies on text interaction and the Unity game engine. By incorporating techniques for scene understanding, task planning, self-debugging, and memory management, LLMR outperforms the standard GPT-4 by 4x in average error rate. We demonstrate LLMR's cross-platform interoperability with several example worlds, and evaluate it on a variety of creation and modification tasks to show that it can produce and edit diverse objects, tools, and scenes. Finally, we conducted a usability study (N=11) with a diverse set that revealed participants had positive experiences with the system and would use it again.

------------

`[2312.14125] VideoPoet: A Large Language Model for Zero-Shot Video Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14125>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:06:53 GMT
    Submission history From: David Ross [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Dec 2023 18:46:41 UTC (39,735 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 18:08:11 UTC (41,255 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:06:53 UTC (41,255 KB)
    Dan Kondratyuk and Lijun Yu and Xiuye Gu and Jos\'e Lezama and Jonathan Huang and Grant Schindler and Rachel Hornung and Vighnesh Birodkar and Jimmy Yan and Ming-Chang Chiu and Krishna Somandepalli and Hassan Akbari and Yair Alon and Yong Cheng and Josh Dillon and Agrim Gupta and Meera Hahn and Anja Hauth and David Hendon and Alonso Martinez and David Minnen and Mikhail Sirotenko and Kihyuk Sohn and Xuan Yang and Hartwig Adam and Ming-Hsuan Yang and Irfan Essa and Huisheng Wang and David A. Ross and Bryan Seybold and Lu Jiang

We present VideoPoet, a language model capable of synthesizing high-quality video, with matching audio, from a large variety of conditioning signals. VideoPoet employs a decoder-only transformer architecture that processes multimodal inputs -- including images, videos, text, and audio. The training protocol follows that of Large Language Models (LLMs), consisting of two stages: pretraining and task-specific adaptation. During pretraining, VideoPoet incorporates a mixture of multimodal generative objectives within an autoregressive Transformer framework. The pretrained LLM serves as a foundation that can be adapted for a range of video generation tasks. We present empirical results demonstrating the model's state-of-the-art capabilities in zero-shot video generation, specifically highlighting VideoPoet's ability to generate high-fidelity motions. Project page: http://sites.research.google/videopoet/

------------

`[2403.05574] HealMe: Harnessing Cognitive Reframing in Large Language Models for Psychotherapy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05574>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 07:34:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Mengxi Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 09:10:34 UTC (1,684 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 07:34:38 UTC (1,684 KB)
    Mengxi Xiao, Qianqian Xie, Ziyan Kuang, Zhicheng Liu, Kailai Yang, Min Peng, Weiguang Han, Jimin Huang

Large Language Models (LLMs) can play a vital role in psychotherapy by adeptly handling the crucial task of cognitive reframing and overcoming challenges such as shame, distrust, therapist skill variability, and resource scarcity. Previous LLMs in cognitive reframing mainly converted negative emotions to positive ones, but these approaches have limited efficacy, often not promoting clients' self-discovery of alternative perspectives. In this paper, we unveil the Helping and Empowering through Adaptive Language in Mental Enhancement (HealMe) model. This novel cognitive reframing therapy method effectively addresses deep-rooted negative thoughts and fosters rational, balanced perspectives. Diverging from traditional LLM methods, HealMe employs empathetic dialogue based on psychotherapeutic frameworks. It systematically guides clients through distinguishing circumstances from feelings, brainstorming alternative viewpoints, and developing empathetic, actionable suggestions. Moreover, we adopt the first comprehensive and expertly crafted psychological evaluation metrics, specifically designed to rigorously assess the performance of cognitive reframing, in both AI-simulated dialogues and real-world therapeutic conversations. Experimental results show that our model outperforms others in terms of empathy, guidance, and logical coherence, demonstrating its effectiveness and potential positive impact on psychotherapy.

------------

`[2403.09530] VisionGPT-3D: A Generalized Multimodal Agent for Enhanced 3D Vision Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09530>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:26:05 GMT
    Submission history From: Luhui Hu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 16:13:00 UTC (9,985 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 15:26:05 UTC (9,985 KB)
    Chris Kelly, Luhui Hu, Jiayin Hu, Yu Tian, Deshun Yang, Bang Yang, Cindy Yang, Zihao Li, Zaoshan Huang, Yuexian Zou

The evolution of text to visual components facilitates people's daily lives, such as generating image, videos from text and identifying the desired elements within the images. Computer vision models involving the multimodal abilities in the previous days are focused on image detection, classification based on well-defined objects. Large language models (LLMs) introduces the transformation from nature language to visual objects, which present the visual layout for text contexts. OpenAI GPT-4 has emerged as the pinnacle in LLMs, while the computer vision (CV) domain boasts a plethora of state-of-the-art (SOTA) models and algorithms to convert 2D images to their 3D representations. However, the mismatching between the algorithms with the problem could lead to undesired results. In response to this challenge, we propose an unified VisionGPT-3D framework to consolidate the state-of-the-art vision models, thereby facilitating the development of vision-oriented AI. VisionGPT-3D provides a versatile multimodal framework building upon the strengths of multimodal foundation models. It seamlessly integrates various SOTA vision models and brings the automation in the selection of SOTA vision models, identifies the suitable 3D mesh creation algorithms corresponding to 2D depth maps analysis, generates optimal results based on diverse multimodal inputs such as text prompts.
Keywords: VisionGPT-3D, 3D vision understanding, Multimodal agent

------------

`[2403.10482] Can a GPT4-Powered AI Agent Be a Good Enough Performance Attribution Analyst? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10482>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:59:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Bruno Veras De Melo [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 17:12:57 UTC (2,055 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 13:59:34 UTC (2,056 KB)
    Bruno de Melo, Jamiel Sheikh

Performance attribution analysis, defined as the process of explaining the drivers of the excess performance of an investment portfolio against a benchmark, stands as a significant feature of portfolio management and plays a crucial role in the investment decision-making process, particularly within the fund management industry. Rooted in a solid financial and mathematical framework, the importance and methodologies of this analytical technique are extensively documented across numerous academic research papers and books. The integration of large language models (LLMs) and AI agents marks a groundbreaking development in this field. These agents are designed to automate and enhance the performance attribution analysis by accurately calculating and analyzing portfolio performances against benchmarks. In this study, we introduce the application of an AI Agent for a variety of essential performance attribution tasks, including the analysis of performance drivers and utilizing LLMs as calculation engine for multi-level attribution analysis and question-answering (QA) tasks. Leveraging advanced prompt engineering techniques such as Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Plan and Solve (PS), and employing a standard agent framework from LangChain, the research achieves promising results: it achieves accuracy rates exceeding 93% in analyzing performance drivers, attains 100% in multi-level attribution calculations, and surpasses 84% accuracy in QA exercises that simulate official examination standards. These findings affirm the impactful role of AI agents, prompt engineering and evaluation in advancing portfolio management processes, highlighting a significant development in the practical application and evaluation of Generative AI technologies within the domain.

------------

`[2403.10581] Large Language Model-informed ECG Dual Attention Network for Heart Failure Risk Prediction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.10581>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 16:00:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Chen Chen [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 13:25:09 UTC (17,090 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 16:00:24 UTC (17,091 KB)
    Chen Chen, Lei Li, Marcel Beetz, Abhirup Banerjee, Ramneek Gupta, Vicente Grau

Heart failure (HF) poses a significant public health challenge, with a rising global mortality rate. Early detection and prevention of HF could significantly reduce its impact. We introduce a novel methodology for predicting HF risk using 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs). We present a novel, lightweight dual-attention ECG network designed to capture complex ECG features essential for early HF risk prediction, despite the notable imbalance between low and high-risk groups. This network incorporates a cross-lead attention module and twelve lead-specific temporal attention modules, focusing on cross-lead interactions and each lead's local dynamics. To further alleviate model overfitting, we leverage a large language model (LLM) with a public ECG-Report dataset for pretraining on an ECG-report alignment task. The network is then fine-tuned for HF risk prediction using two specific cohorts from the UK Biobank study, focusing on patients with hypertension (UKB-HYP) and those who have had a myocardial infarction (UKB-MI).The results reveal that LLM-informed pre-training substantially enhances HF risk prediction in these cohorts. The dual-attention design not only improves interpretability but also predictive accuracy, outperforming existing competitive methods with C-index scores of 0.6349 for UKB-HYP and 0.5805 for UKB-MI. This demonstrates our method's potential in advancing HF risk assessment with clinical complex ECG data.

------------

`[2403.13362] Incentivizing News Consumption on Social Media Platforms Using Large Language Models and Realistic Bot Accounts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13362>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 21 Mar 2024 21:56:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Hadi Askari [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Mar 2024 07:44:06 UTC (4,259 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 21:56:49 UTC (4,259 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:10:48 UTC (4,259 KB)
    Hadi Askari, Anshuman Chhabra, Bernhard Clemm von Hohenberg, Michael Heseltine, Magdalena Wojcieszak

Polarization, declining trust, and wavering support for democratic norms are pressing threats to U.S. democracy. Exposure to verified and quality news may lower individual susceptibility to these threats and make citizens more resilient to misinformation, populism, and hyperpartisan rhetoric. This project examines how to enhance users' exposure to and engagement with verified and ideologically balanced news in an ecologically valid setting. We rely on a large-scale two-week long field experiment (from 1/19/2023 to 2/3/2023) on 28,457 Twitter users. We created 28 bots utilizing GPT-2 that replied to users tweeting about sports, entertainment, or lifestyle with a contextual reply containing two hardcoded elements: a URL to the topic-relevant section of quality news organization and an encouragement to follow its Twitter account. To further test differential effects by gender of the bots, treated users were randomly assigned to receive responses by bots presented as female or male. We examine whether our over-time intervention enhances the following of news media organization, the sharing and the liking of news content and the tweeting about politics and the liking of political content. We find that the treated users followed more news accounts and the users in the female bot treatment were more likely to like news content than the control. Most of these results, however, were small in magnitude and confined to the already politically interested Twitter users, as indicated by their pre-treatment tweeting about politics. These findings have implications for social media and news organizations, and also offer direction for future work on how Large Language Models and other computational interventions can effectively enhance individual on-platform engagement with quality news and public affairs.

------------

`[2306.06531] AutoTAMP: Autoregressive Task and Motion Planning with LLMs as Translators and Checkers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.06531>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 00:21:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Yongchao Chen [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 10 Jun 2023 21:58:29 UTC (9,815 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 27 Sep 2023 17:43:42 UTC (4,190 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 00:21:04 UTC (4,191 KB)
    Yongchao Chen, Jacob Arkin, Charles Dawson, Yang Zhang, Nicholas Roy, Chuchu Fan

For effective human-robot interaction, robots need to understand, plan, and execute complex, long-horizon tasks described by natural language. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have shown promise for translating natural language into robot action sequences for complex tasks. However, existing approaches either translate the natural language directly into robot trajectories or factor the inference process by decomposing language into task sub-goals and relying on a motion planner to execute each sub-goal. When complex environmental and temporal constraints are involved, inference over planning tasks must be performed jointly with motion plans using traditional task-and-motion planning (TAMP) algorithms, making factorization into subgoals untenable. Rather than using LLMs to directly plan task sub-goals, we instead perform few-shot translation from natural language task descriptions to an intermediate task representation that can then be consumed by a TAMP algorithm to jointly solve the task and motion plan. To improve translation, we automatically detect and correct both syntactic and semantic errors via autoregressive re-prompting, resulting in significant improvements in task completion. We show that our approach outperforms several methods using LLMs as planners in complex task domains. See our project website this https URL for prompts, videos, and code.

------------

`[2403.09611] MM1: Methods, Analysis & Insights from Multimodal LLM Pre-training <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09611>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:03:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhe Gan [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 17:51:32 UTC (14,464 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 19 Mar 2024 16:37:13 UTC (14,458 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:03:16 UTC (14,458 KB)
    Brandon McKinzie, Zhe Gan, Jean-Philippe Fauconnier, Sam Dodge, Bowen Zhang, Philipp Dufter, Dhruti Shah, Xianzhi Du, Futang Peng, Floris Weers, Anton Belyi, Haotian Zhang, Karanjeet Singh, Doug Kang, Ankur Jain, Hongyu H\`e, Max Schwarzer, Tom Gunter, Xiang Kong, Aonan Zhang, Jianyu Wang, Chong Wang, Nan Du, Tao Lei, Sam Wiseman, Guoli Yin, Mark Lee, Zirui Wang, Ruoming Pang, Peter Grasch, Alexander Toshev, Yinfei Yang

In this work, we discuss building performant Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs). In particular, we study the importance of various architecture components and data choices. Through careful and comprehensive ablations of the image encoder, the vision language connector, and various pre-training data choices, we identified several crucial design lessons. For example, we demonstrate that for large-scale multimodal pre-training using a careful mix of image-caption, interleaved image-text, and text-only data is crucial for achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) few-shot results across multiple benchmarks, compared to other published pre-training results. Further, we show that the image encoder together with image resolution and the image token count has substantial impact, while the vision-language connector design is of comparatively negligible importance. By scaling up the presented recipe, we build MM1, a family of multimodal models up to 30B parameters, including both dense models and mixture-of-experts (MoE) variants, that are SOTA in pre-training metrics and achieve competitive performance after supervised fine-tuning on a range of established multimodal benchmarks. Thanks to large-scale pre-training, MM1 enjoys appealing properties such as enhanced in-context learning, and multi-image reasoning, enabling few-shot chain-of-thought prompting.
