240212
========

`[2402.06044] OpenToM: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Theory-of-Mind Reasoning Capabilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06044>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 20:35:06 GMT
    Hainiu Xu, Runcong Zhao, Lixing Zhu, Jinhua Du, Yulan He

Neural Theory-of-Mind (N-ToM), machine's ability to understand and keep track of the mental states of others, is pivotal in developing socially intelligent agents. However, prevalent N-ToM benchmarks have several shortcomings, including the presence of ambiguous and artificial narratives, absence of personality traits and preferences, a lack of questions addressing characters' psychological mental states, and limited diversity in the questions posed. In response to these issues, we construct OpenToM, a new benchmark for assessing N-ToM with (1) longer and clearer narrative stories, (2) characters with explicit personality traits, (3) actions that are triggered by character intentions, and (4) questions designed to challenge LLMs' capabilities of modeling characters' mental states of both the physical and psychological world. Using OpenToM, we reveal that state-of-the-art LLMs thrive at modeling certain aspects of mental states in the physical world but fall short when tracking characters' mental states in the psychological world.

------------

`[2402.06049] Limits of Large Language Models in Debating Humans <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06049>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 03:24:27 GMT
    James Flamino, Mohammed Shahid Modi, Boleslaw K. Szymanski, Brendan Cross, Colton Mikolajczyk

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable promise in their ability to interact proficiently with humans. Subsequently, their potential use as artificial confederates and surrogates in sociological experiments involving conversation is an exciting prospect. But how viable is this idea? This paper endeavors to test the limits of current-day LLMs with a pre-registered study integrating real people with LLM agents acting as people. The study focuses on debate-based opinion consensus formation in three environments: humans only, agents and humans, and agents only. Our goal is to understand how LLM agents influence humans, and how capable they are in debating like humans. We find that LLMs can blend in and facilitate human productivity but are less convincing in debate, with their behavior ultimately deviating from human's. We elucidate these primary failings and anticipate that LLMs must evolve further before being viable debaters.

------------

`[2402.06147] DeAL: Decoding-time Alignment for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06147>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 06:12:29 GMT
    James Y. Huang, Sailik Sengupta, Daniele Bonadiman, Yi-an Lai, Arshit Gupta, Nikolaos Pappas, Saab Mansour, Katrin Kirchoff, Dan Roth

Large Language Models (LLMs) are nowadays expected to generate content aligned with human preferences. Current work focuses on alignment at model training time, through techniques such as Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF). However, it is unclear if such methods are an effective choice to teach alignment objectives to the model. First, the inability to incorporate multiple, custom rewards and reliance on a model developer's view of universal and static principles are key limitations. Second, the residual gaps in model training and the reliability of such approaches are also questionable (e.g.
susceptibility to jail-breaking even after safety training). To address these, we propose DeAL, a framework that allows the user to customize reward functions and enables Decoding-time Alignment of LLMs (DeAL). At its core, we view decoding as a heuristic-guided search process and facilitate the use of a wide variety of alignment objectives. Our experiments with programmatic constraints such as keyword and length constraints (studied widely in the pre-LLM era) and abstract objectives such as harmlessness and helpfulness (proposed in the post-LLM era) show that we can DeAL with fine-grained trade-offs, improve adherence to alignment objectives, and address residual gaps in LLMs. Lastly, while DeAL can be effectively paired with RLHF and prompting techniques, its generality makes decoding slower, an optimization we leave for future work.

------------

`[2402.06264] LLaVA-Docent: Instruction Tuning with Multimodal Large Language Model to Support Art Appreciation Education <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06264>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:25:18 GMT
    Unggi Lee, Minji Jeon, Yunseo Lee, Gyuri Byun, Yoorim Son, Jaeyoon Shin, Hongkyu Ko, Hyeoncheol Kim

Art appreciation is vital in nurturing critical thinking and emotional intelligence among learners. However, traditional art appreciation education has often been hindered by limited access to art resources, especially for disadvantaged students, and an imbalanced emphasis on STEM subjects in mainstream education. In response to these challenges, recent technological advancements have paved the way for innovative solutions. This study explores the application of multi-modal large language models (MLLMs) in art appreciation education, focusing on developing LLaVA-Docent, a model that leverages these advancements. Our approach involved a comprehensive literature review and consultations with experts in the field, leading to developing a robust data framework. Utilizing this framework, we generated a virtual dialogue dataset that was leveraged by GPT-4. This dataset was instrumental in training the MLLM, named LLaVA-Docent. Six researchers conducted quantitative and qualitative evaluations of LLaVA-Docent to assess its effectiveness, benchmarking it against the GPT-4 model in a few-shot setting. The evaluation process revealed distinct strengths and weaknesses of the LLaVA-Docent model.
Our findings highlight the efficacy of LLaVA-Docent in enhancing the accessibility and engagement of art appreciation education. By harnessing the potential of MLLMs, this study makes a significant contribution to the field of art education, proposing a novel methodology that reimagines the way art appreciation is taught and experienced.

------------

`[2402.06529] Introspective Planning: Guiding Language-Enabled Agents to Refine Their Own Uncertainty <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06529>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 16:40:59 GMT
    Kaiqu Liang, Zixu Zhang, Jaime Fern\'andez Fisac

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit advanced reasoning skills, enabling robots to comprehend natural language instructions and strategically plan high-level actions through proper grounding. However, LLM hallucination may result in robots confidently executing plans that are misaligned with user goals or, in extreme cases, unsafe. Additionally, inherent ambiguity in natural language instructions can induce task uncertainty, particularly in situations where multiple valid options exist. To address this issue, LLMs must identify such uncertainty and proactively seek clarification. This paper explores the concept of introspective planning as a systematic method for guiding LLMs in forming uncertainty--aware plans for robotic task execution without the need for fine-tuning. We investigate uncertainty quantification in task-level robot planning and demonstrate that introspection significantly improves both success rates and safety compared to state-of-the-art LLM-based planning approaches.
Furthermore, we assess the effectiveness of introspective planning in conjunction with conformal prediction, revealing that this combination yields tighter confidence bounds, thereby maintaining statistical success guarantees with fewer superfluous user clarification queries.

------------

`[2402.06557] The Quantified Boolean Bayesian Network: Theory and Experiments with a Logical Graphical Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06557>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:15:45 GMT
    Gregory Coppola

This paper introduces the Quantified Boolean Bayesian Network (QBBN), which provides a unified view of logical and probabilistic reasoning. The QBBN is meant to address a central problem with the Large Language Model (LLM), which has become extremely popular in Information Retrieval, which is that the LLM hallucinates. A Bayesian Network, by construction, cannot hallucinate, because it can only return answers that it can explain. We show how a Bayesian Network over an unbounded number of boolean variables can be configured to represent the logical reasoning underlying human language. We do this by creating a key-value version of the First-Order Calculus, for which we can prove consistency and completeness. We show that the model is trivially trained over fully observed data, but that inference is non-trivial. Exact inference in a Bayesian Network is intractable (i.e. $\Omega(2^N)$ for $N$ variables). For inference, we investigate the use of Loopy Belief Propagation (LBP), which is not guaranteed to converge, but which has been shown to often converge in practice. Our experiments show that LBP indeed does converge very reliably, and our analysis shows that a round of LBP takes time $O(N2^n)$, where $N$ bounds the number of variables considered, and $n$ bounds the number of incoming connections to any factor, and further improvements may be possible. Our network is specifically designed to alternate between AND and OR gates in a Boolean Algebra, which connects more closely to logical reasoning, allowing a completeness proof for an expanded version of our network, and also allows inference to follow specific but adequate pathways, that turn out to be fast.

------------

`[2402.06596] Understanding the Weakness of Large Language Model Agents within a Complex Android Environment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06596>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:19:25 GMT
    Mingzhe Xing, Rongkai Zhang, Hui Xue, Qi Chen, Fan Yang, Zhen Xiao

Large language models (LLMs) have empowered intelligent agents to execute intricate tasks within domain-specific software such as browsers and games.
However, when applied to general-purpose software systems like operating systems, LLM agents face three primary challenges. Firstly, the action space is vast and dynamic, posing difficulties for LLM agents to maintain an up-to-date understanding and deliver accurate responses. Secondly, real-world tasks often require inter-application cooperation}, demanding farsighted planning from LLM agents. Thirdly, agents need to identify optimal solutions aligning with user constraints, such as security concerns and preferences. These challenges motivate AndroidArena, an environment and benchmark designed to evaluate LLM agents on a modern operating system. To address high-cost of manpower, we design a scalable and semi-automated method to construct the benchmark. In the task evaluation, AndroidArena incorporates accurate and adaptive metrics to address the issue of non-unique solutions. Our findings reveal that even state-of-the-art LLM agents struggle in cross-APP scenarios and adhering to specific constraints. Additionally, we identify a lack of four key capabilities, i.e., understanding, reasoning, exploration, and reflection, as primary reasons for the failure of LLM agents. Furthermore, we provide empirical analysis on the failure of reflection, and improve the success rate by 27% with our proposed exploration strategy. This work is the first to present valuable insights in understanding fine-grained weakness of LLM agents, and offers a path forward for future research in this area. Environment, benchmark, and evaluation code for AndroidArena are released at https://github.com/AndroidArenaAgent/AndroidArena.

------------

`[2402.06041] A Prompt Response to the Demand for Automatic Gender-Neutral Translation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06041>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 20:24:44 GMT
    Beatrice Savoldi and Andrea Piergentili and Dennis Fucci and Matteo Negri and Luisa Bentivogli

Gender-neutral translation (GNT) that avoids biased and undue binary assumptions is a pivotal challenge for the creation of more inclusive translation technologies. Advancements for this task in Machine Translation (MT), however, are hindered by the lack of dedicated parallel data, which are necessary to adapt MT systems to satisfy neutral constraints. For such a scenario, large language models offer hitherto unforeseen possibilities, as they come with the distinct advantage of being versatile in various (sub)tasks when provided with explicit instructions. In this paper, we explore this potential to automate GNT by comparing MT with the popular GPT-4 model. Through extensive manual analyses, our study empirically reveals the inherent limitations of current MT systems in generating GNTs and provides valuable insights into the potential and challenges associated with prompting for neutrality.

------------

`[2402.06094] Rethinking Data Selection for Supervised Fine-Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06094>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 23:02:04 GMT
    Ming Shen

Although supervised finetuning (SFT) has emerged as an essential technique to align large language models with humans, it is considered superficial, with style learning being its nature. At the same time, recent works indicate the importance of data selection for SFT, showing that finetuning with high-quality and diverse subsets of the original dataset leads to superior downstream performance. In this work, we rethink the intuition behind data selection for SFT. Considering SFT is superficial, we propose that essential demonstrations for SFT should focus on reflecting human-like interactions instead of data quality or diversity. However, it is not straightforward to directly assess to what extent a demonstration reflects human styles. Towards an initial attempt in this direction, we find selecting instances with long responses is surprisingly more effective for SFT than utilizing full datasets or instances selected based on quality and diversity. We hypothesize that such a simple heuristic implicitly mimics a crucial aspect of human-style conversation: detailed responses are usually more helpful.

------------

`[2402.06120] Exploring Group and Symmetry Principles in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06120>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:10:25 GMT
    Shima Imani, Hamid Palangi

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance across a wide range of applications; however, assessing their reasoning capabilities remains a significant challenge. In this paper, we introduce a framework grounded in group and symmetry principles, which have played a crucial role in fields such as physics and mathematics, and offer another way to evaluate their capabilities. While the proposed framework is general, to showcase the benefits of employing these properties, we focus on arithmetic reasoning and investigate the performance of these models on four group properties: closure, identity, inverse, and associativity. Our findings reveal that LLMs studied in this work struggle to preserve group properties across different test regimes. In the closure test, we observe biases towards specific outputs and an abrupt degradation in their performance from 100% to 0% after a specific sequence length. They also perform poorly in the identity test, which represents adding irrelevant information in the context, and show sensitivity when subjected to inverse test, which examines the robustness of the model with respect to negation. In addition, we demonstrate that breaking down problems into smaller steps helps LLMs in the associativity test that we have conducted. To support these tests we have developed a synthetic dataset which will be released.

------------

`[2402.06125] Language Model Sentence Completion with a Parser-Driven Rhetorical Control Method <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06125>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:15:42 GMT
    Joshua Zingale and Jugal Kalita

Controlled text generation (CTG) seeks to guide large language model (LLM) output to produce text that conforms to desired criteria. The current study presents a novel CTG algorithm that enforces adherence toward specific rhetorical relations in an LLM sentence-completion context by a parser-driven decoding scheme that requires no model fine-tuning. The method is validated both with automatic and human evaluation. The code is accessible on GitHub.

------------

`[2402.06126] Learn To be Efficient: Build Structured Sparsity in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06126>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:18:16 GMT
    Haizhong Zheng, Xiaoyan Bai, Beidi Chen, Fan Lai, Atul Prakash

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success with their billion-level parameters, yet they incur high inference overheads. The emergence of activation sparsity in LLMs provides a natural approach to reduce this cost by involving only parts of the parameters for inference. Existing methods only focus on utilizing this naturally formed activation sparsity, overlooking the potential for further amplifying this inherent sparsity. In this paper, we hypothesize that LLMs can learn to be efficient by achieving more structured activation sparsity.To achieve this, we introduce a novel algorithm, Learn-To-be-Efficient (LTE), designed to train efficiency-aware LLMs to learn to activate fewer neurons and achieve a better trade-off between sparsity and performance. Furthermore, unlike SOTA MoEfication methods, which mainly focus on ReLU-based models, LTE can also be applied to LLMs like GPT and LLaMA with soft activation functions. We evaluate LTE on four models and eleven datasets. The experiments show that LTE achieves a better trade-off between sparsity and task performance. For instance, LTE with LLaMA provides a 1.83x-2.59x FLOPs speed-up on language generation tasks, outperforming the state-of-the-art methods.

------------

`[2402.06196] Large Language Models: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06196>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 05:37:09 GMT
    Shervin Minaee, Tomas Mikolov, Narjes Nikzad, Meysam Chenaghlu, Richard Socher, Xavier Amatriain, Jianfeng Gao

Large Language Models (LLMs) have drawn a lot of attention due to their strong performance on a wide range of natural language tasks, since the release of ChatGPT in November 2022. LLMs' ability of general-purpose language understanding and generation is acquired by training billions of model's parameters on massive amounts of text data, as predicted by scaling laws \cite{kaplan2020scaling,hoffmann2022training}. The research area of LLMs, while very recent, is evolving rapidly in many different ways. In this paper, we review some of the most prominent LLMs, including three popular LLM families (GPT, LLaMA, PaLM), and discuss their characteristics, contributions and limitations. We also give an overview of techniques developed to build, and augment LLMs. We then survey popular datasets prepared for LLM training, fine-tuning, and evaluation, review widely used LLM evaluation metrics, and compare the performance of several popular LLMs on a set of representative benchmarks. Finally, we conclude the paper by discussing open challenges and future research directions.

------------

`[2402.06204] The Generative AI Paradox on Evaluation: What It Can Solve, It May Not Evaluate <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06204>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 06:16:08 GMT
    Juhyun Oh, Eunsu Kim, Inha Cha, Alice Oh

This paper explores the assumption that Large Language Models (LLMs) skilled in generation tasks are equally adept as evaluators. We assess the performance of three LLMs and one open-source LM in Question-Answering (QA) and evaluation tasks using the TriviaQA (Joshi et al., 2017) dataset. Results indicate a significant disparity, with LLMs exhibiting lower performance in evaluation tasks compared to generation tasks. Intriguingly, we discover instances of unfaithful evaluation where models accurately evaluate answers in areas where they lack competence, underscoring the need to examine the faithfulness and trustworthiness of LLMs as evaluators. This study contributes to the understanding of "the Generative AI Paradox" (West et al., 2023), highlighting a need to explore the correlation between generative excellence and evaluation proficiency, and the necessity to scrutinize the faithfulness aspect in model evaluations.

------------

`[2402.06221] ResumeFlow: An LLM-facilitated Pipeline for Personalized Resume Generation and Refinement <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06221>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:13:44 GMT
    Saurabh Bhausaheb Zinjad, Amrita Bhattacharjee, Amey Bhilegaonkar, Huan Liu

Crafting the ideal, job-specific resume is a challenging task for many job applicants, especially for early-career applicants. While it is highly recommended that applicants tailor their resume to the specific role they are applying for, manually tailoring resumes to job descriptions and role-specific requirements is often (1) extremely time-consuming, and (2) prone to human errors. Furthermore, performing such a tailoring step at scale while applying to several roles may result in a lack of quality of the edited resumes. To tackle this problem, in this demo paper, we propose ResumeFlow: a Large Language Model (LLM) aided tool that enables an end user to simply provide their detailed resume and the desired job posting, and obtain a personalized resume specifically tailored to that specific job posting in the matter of a few seconds. Our proposed pipeline leverages the language understanding and information extraction capabilities of state-of-the-art LLMs such as OpenAI's GPT-4 and Google's Gemini, in order to (1) extract details from a job description, (2) extract role-specific details from the user-provided resume, and then (3) use these to refine and generate a role-specific resume for the user. Our easy-to-use tool leverages the user-chosen LLM in a completely off-the-shelf manner, thus requiring no fine-tuning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our tool via a video demo and propose novel task-specific evaluation metrics to control for alignment and hallucination. Our tool is available at https://job-aligned-resume.streamlit.app.

------------

`[2402.06262] On the Efficacy of Eviction Policy for Key-Value Constrained Generative Language Model Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06262>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:20:59 GMT
    Siyu Ren, Kenny Q. Zhu

Despite the recent success associated with Large Language Models~(LLMs), they are notably cost-prohibitive to deploy in resource-constrained environments due to their excessive memory and computational demands. In addition to model parameters, the key-value cache is also stored in GPU memory, growing linearly with batch size and sequence length. As a remedy, recent works have proposed various eviction policies for maintaining the overhead of key-value cache under a given budget. This paper embarks on the efficacy of existing eviction policies in terms of \textit{importance score calculation} and \textit{eviction scope construction}. We identify the deficiency of prior policies in these two aspects and introduce RoCo, a \underline{r}\underline{o}bust \underline{c}ache \underline{o}mission policy based on temporal attention scores and robustness measures. Extensive experimentation spanning prefilling and auto-regressive decoding stages validates the superiority of RoCo. Finally, we release EasyKV, a versatile software package dedicated to user-friendly key-value constrained generative inference. Code available at \url{https://github.com/DRSY/EasyKV}.

------------

`[2402.06332] InternLM-Math: Open Math Large Language Models Toward Verifiable Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06332>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 11:22:08 GMT
    Huaiyuan Ying, Shuo Zhang, Linyang Li, Zhejian Zhou, Yunfan Shao, Zhaoye Fei, Yichuan Ma, Jiawei Hong, Kuikun Liu, Ziyi Wang, Yudong Wang, Zijian Wu, Shuaibin Li, Fengzhe Zhou, Hongwei Liu, Songyang Zhang, Wenwei Zhang, Hang Yan, Xipeng Qiu, Jiayu Wang, Kai Chen, Dahua Lin

The math abilities of large language models can represent their abstract reasoning ability. In this paper, we introduce and open-source our math reasoning LLMs InternLM-Math which is continue pre-trained from InternLM2. We unify chain-of-thought reasoning, reward modeling, formal reasoning, data augmentation, and code interpreter in a unified seq2seq format and supervise our model to be a versatile math reasoner, verifier, prover, and augmenter.
These abilities can be used to develop the next math LLMs or self-iteration.
InternLM-Math obtains open-sourced state-of-the-art performance under the setting of in-context learning, supervised fine-tuning, and code-assisted reasoning in various informal and formal benchmarks including GSM8K, MATH, Hungary math exam, MathBench-ZH, and MiniF2F. Our pre-trained model achieves 30.3 on the MiniF2F test set without fine-tuning. We further explore how to use LEAN to solve math problems and study its performance under the setting of multi-task learning which shows the possibility of using LEAN as a unified platform for solving and proving in math. Our models, codes, and data are released at \url{https://github.com/InternLM/InternLM-Math}.

------------

`[2402.06341] RareBench: Can LLMs Serve as Rare Diseases Specialists? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06341>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 11:34:16 GMT
    Xuanzhong Chen, Xiaohao Mao, Qihan Guo, Lun Wang, Shuyang Zhang, Ting Chen

Generalist Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, have shown considerable promise in various domains, including medical diagnosis. Rare diseases, affecting approximately 300 million people worldwide, often have unsatisfactory clinical diagnosis rates primarily due to a lack of experienced physicians and the complexity of differentiating among many rare diseases. In this context, recent news such as "ChatGPT correctly diagnosed a 4-year-old's rare disease after 17 doctors failed" underscore LLMs' potential, yet underexplored, role in clinically diagnosing rare diseases. To bridge this research gap, we introduce RareBench, a pioneering benchmark designed to systematically evaluate the capabilities of LLMs on 4 critical dimensions within the realm of rare diseases. Meanwhile, we have compiled the largest open-source dataset on rare disease patients, establishing a benchmark for future studies in this domain. To facilitate differential diagnosis of rare diseases, we develop a dynamic few-shot prompt methodology, leveraging a comprehensive rare disease knowledge graph synthesized from multiple knowledge bases, significantly enhancing LLMs' diagnostic performance. Moreover, we present an exhaustive comparative study of GPT-4's diagnostic capabilities against those of specialist physicians. Our experimental findings underscore the promising potential of integrating LLMs into the clinical diagnostic process for rare diseases. This paves the way for exciting possibilities in future advancements in this field.

------------

`[2402.06544] Calibrating Long-form Generations from Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06544>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:00:32 GMT
    Yukun Huang, Yixin Liu, Raghuveer Thirukovalluru, Arman Cohan, Bhuwan Dhingra

To enhance Large Language Models' (LLMs) reliability, calibration is essential -- the model's assessed confidence scores should align with the actual likelihood of its responses being correct. However, current confidence elicitation methods and calibration metrics typically rely on a binary true/false assessment of response correctness. This approach does not apply to long-form generation, where an answer can be partially correct. Addressing this gap, we introduce a unified calibration framework, in which both the correctness of the LLMs' responses and their associated confidence levels are treated as distributions across a range of scores. Within this framework, we develop three metrics to precisely evaluate LLM calibration and further propose two confidence elicitation methods based on self-consistency and self-evaluation. Our experiments, which include long-form QA and summarization tasks, demonstrate that larger models don't necessarily guarantee better calibration, that calibration performance is found to be metric-dependent, and that self-consistency methods excel in factoid datasets. We also find that calibration can be enhanced through techniques such as fine-tuning, integrating relevant source documents, scaling the temperature, and combining self-consistency with self-evaluation. Lastly, we showcase a practical application of our system: selecting and cascading open-source models and ChatGPT to optimize correctness given a limited API budget. This research not only challenges existing notions of LLM calibration but also offers practical methodologies for improving trustworthiness in long-form generation.

------------

`[2402.06549] Bryndza at ClimateActivism 2024: Stance, Target and Hate Event Detection via Retrieval-Augmented GPT-4 and LLaMA <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06549>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:02:41 GMT
    Marek \v{S}uppa and Daniel Skala and Daniela Ja\v{s}\v{s} and Samuel Su\v{c}\'ik and Andrej \v{S}vec and Peter Hra\v{s}ka

This study details our approach for the CASE 2024 Shared Task on Climate Activism Stance and Hate Event Detection, focusing on Hate Speech Detection, Hate Speech Target Identification, and Stance Detection as classification challenges. We explored the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly GPT-4, in zero- or few-shot settings enhanced by retrieval augmentation and re-ranking for Tweet classification. Our goal was to determine if LLMs could match or surpass traditional methods in this context.
We conducted an ablation study with LLaMA for comparison, and our results indicate that our models significantly outperformed the baselines, securing second place in the Target Detection task. The code for our submission is available at https://github.com/NaiveNeuron/bryndza-case-2024

------------

`[2402.06584] G-SciEdBERT: A Contextualized LLM for Science Assessment Tasks in German <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06584>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:05:03 GMT
    Ehsan Latif, Gyeong-Geon Lee, Knut Neuman, Tamara Kastorff, and Xiaoming Zhai

The advancement of natural language processing has paved the way for automated scoring systems in various languages, such as German (e.g., German BERT [G-BERT]). Automatically scoring written responses to science questions in German is a complex task and challenging for standard G-BERT as they lack contextual knowledge in the science domain and may be unaligned with student writing styles. This paper developed a contextualized German Science Education BERT (G-SciEdBERT), an innovative large language model tailored for scoring German-written responses to science tasks. Using G-BERT, we pre-trained G-SciEdBERT on a corpus of 50K German written science responses with 5M tokens to the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) 2015. We fine-tuned G-SciEdBERT on 59 assessment items and examined the scoring accuracy. We then compared its performance with G-BERT. Our findings reveal a substantial improvement in scoring accuracy with G-SciEdBERT, demonstrating a 10% increase of quadratic weighted kappa compared to G-BERT (mean accuracy difference = 0.096, SD = 0.024). These insights underline the significance of specialized language models like G-SciEdBERT, which is trained to enhance the accuracy of automated scoring, offering a substantial contribution to the field of AI in education.

------------

`[2402.06608] TIC: Translate-Infer-Compile for accurate 'text to plan' using LLMs and logical intermediate representations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06608>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:39:13 GMT
    Sudhir Agarwal and Anu Sreepathy

We study the problem of generating plans for given natural language planning task requests. On one hand, LLMs excel at natural language processing but do not perform well on planning. On the other hand, classical planning tools excel at planning tasks but require input in a structured language such as the Planning Domain Definition Language (PDDL). We leverage the strengths of both the techniques by using an LLM for generating the PDDL representation (task PDDL) of planning task requests followed by using a classical planner for computing a plan. Unlike previous approaches that use LLMs for generating task PDDLs directly, our approach comprises of (a) translate: using an LLM only for generating a logically interpretable intermediate representation of natural language task descriptions, (b) infer: deriving additional logically dependent information from the intermediate representation using a logic reasoner (currently, Answer Set Programming solver), and (c) compile: generating the target task PDDL from the base and inferred information. We observe that using an LLM to only output the intermediate representation significantly reduces LLM errors. Consequently, TIC approach achieves, for at least one LLM, high accuracy on task PDDL generation for all seven domains of our evaluation dataset.

------------

`[2402.06619] Aya Dataset: An Open-Access Collection for Multilingual Instruction Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06619>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:51:49 GMT
    Shivalika Singh, Freddie Vargus, Daniel Dsouza, B\"orje F. Karlsson, Abinaya Mahendiran, Wei-Yin Ko, Herumb Shandilya, Jay Patel, Deividas Mataciunas, Laura OMahony, Mike Zhang, Ramith Hettiarachchi, Joseph Wilson, Marina Machado, Luisa Souza Moura, Dominik Krzemi\'nski, Hakimeh Fadaei, Irem Erg\"un, Ifeoma Okoh, Aisha Alaagib, Oshan Mudannayake, Zaid Alyafeai, Vu Minh Chien, Sebastian Ruder, Surya Guthikonda, Emad A. Alghamdi, Sebastian Gehrmann, Niklas Muennighoff, Max Bartolo, Julia Kreutzer, Ahmet \"Ust\"un, Marzieh Fadaee, Sara Hooker

Datasets are foundational to many breakthroughs in modern artificial intelligence. Many recent achievements in the space of natural language processing (NLP) can be attributed to the finetuning of pre-trained models on a diverse set of tasks that enables a large language model (LLM) to respond to instructions. Instruction fine-tuning (IFT) requires specifically constructed and annotated datasets. However, existing datasets are almost all in the English language. In this work, our primary goal is to bridge the language gap by building a human-curated instruction-following dataset spanning 65 languages. We worked with fluent speakers of languages from around the world to collect natural instances of instructions and completions. Furthermore, we create the most extensive multilingual collection to date, comprising 513 million instances through templating and translating existing datasets across 114 languages. In total, we contribute four key resources: we develop and open-source the Aya Annotation Platform, the Aya Dataset, the Aya Collection, and the Aya Evaluation Suite. The Aya initiative also serves as a valuable case study in participatory research, involving collaborators from 119 countries. We see this as a valuable framework for future research collaborations that aim to bridge gaps in resources.

------------

`[2402.06625] Understanding the Effects of Iterative Prompting on Truthfulness <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06625>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:57:08 GMT
    Satyapriya Krishna, Chirag Agarwal, Himabindu Lakkaraju

The development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has notably transformed numerous sectors, offering impressive text generation capabilities. Yet, the reliability and truthfulness of these models remain pressing concerns. To this end, we investigate iterative prompting, a strategy hypothesized to refine LLM responses, assessing its impact on LLM truthfulness, an area which has not been thoroughly explored. Our extensive experiments delve into the intricacies of iterative prompting variants, examining their influence on the accuracy and calibration of model responses. Our findings reveal that naive prompting methods significantly undermine truthfulness, leading to exacerbated calibration errors. In response to these challenges, we introduce several prompting variants designed to address the identified issues. These variants demonstrate marked improvements over existing baselines, signaling a promising direction for future research. Our work provides a nuanced understanding of iterative prompting and introduces novel approaches to enhance the truthfulness of LLMs, thereby contributing to the development of more accurate and trustworthy AI systems.

------------

`[2402.05952] Advancing Graph Representation Learning with Large Language Models: A Comprehensive Survey of Techniques <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05952>`__

::

    Sun, 4 Feb 2024 05:51:14 GMT
    Qiheng Mao, Zemin Liu, Chenghao Liu, Zhuo Li, Jianling Sun

The integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) with Graph Representation Learning (GRL) marks a significant evolution in analyzing complex data structures. This collaboration harnesses the sophisticated linguistic capabilities of LLMs to improve the contextual understanding and adaptability of graph models, thereby broadening the scope and potential of GRL. Despite a growing body of research dedicated to integrating LLMs into the graph domain, a comprehensive review that deeply analyzes the core components and operations within these models is notably lacking. Our survey fills this gap by proposing a novel taxonomy that breaks down these models into primary components and operation techniques from a novel technical perspective. We further dissect recent literature into two primary components including knowledge extractors and organizers, and two operation techniques including integration and training stratigies, shedding light on effective model design and training strategies.
Additionally, we identify and explore potential future research avenues in this nascent yet underexplored field, proposing paths for continued progress.

------------

`[2402.06082] SubGen: Token Generation in Sublinear Time and Memory <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06082>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 22:17:40 GMT
    Amir Zandieh, Insu Han, Vahab Mirrokni, Amin Karbasi

Despite the significant success of large language models (LLMs), their extensive memory requirements pose challenges for deploying them in long-context token generation. The substantial memory footprint of LLM decoders arises from the necessity to store all previous tokens in the attention module, a requirement imposed by key-value (KV) caching. In this work, our focus is on developing an efficient compression technique for the KV cache. Empirical evidence indicates a significant clustering tendency within key embeddings in the attention module. Building on this key insight, we have devised a novel caching method with sublinear complexity, employing online clustering on key tokens and online $\ell_2$ sampling on values. The result is a provably accurate and efficient attention decoding algorithm, termed SubGen. Not only does this algorithm ensure a sublinear memory footprint and sublinear time complexity, but we also establish a tight error bound for our approach.
Empirical evaluations on long-context question-answering tasks demonstrate that SubGen significantly outperforms existing and state-of-the-art KV cache compression methods in terms of performance and efficiency.

------------

`[2402.06255] Studious Bob Fight Back Against Jailbreaking via Prompt Adversarial Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06255>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:09:39 GMT
    Yichuan Mo, Yuji Wang, Zeming Wei, Yisen Wang

Although Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved tremendous success in various applications, they are also susceptible to certain prompts that can induce them to bypass built-in safety measures and provide dangerous or illegal content, a phenomenon known as jailbreak. To protect LLMs from producing harmful information, various defense strategies are proposed, with most focusing on content filtering or adversarial training of models. In this paper, we propose an approach named Prompt Adversarial Tuning (PAT) to train a defense control mechanism, which is then embedded as a prefix to user prompts to implement our defense strategy. We design a training process similar to adversarial training to achieve our optimized goal, alternating between updating attack and defense controls. To our knowledge, we are the first to implement defense from the perspective of prompt tuning. Once employed, our method will hardly impact the operational efficiency of LLMs. Experiments show that our method is effective in both black-box and white-box settings, reducing the success rate of advanced attacks to nearly 0 while maintaining the benign answer rate of 80% to simple benign questions. Our work might potentially chart a new perspective for future explorations in LLM security.

------------

`[2402.06457] V-STaR: Training Verifiers for Self-Taught Reasoners <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06457>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 15:02:56 GMT
    Arian Hosseini, Xingdi Yuan, Nikolay Malkin, Aaron Courville, Alessandro Sordoni and Rishabh Agarwal

Common self-improvement approaches for large language models (LLMs), such as STaR (Zelikman et al., 2022), iteratively fine-tune LLMs on self-generated solutions to improve their problem-solving ability. However, these approaches discard the large amounts of incorrect solutions generated during this process, potentially neglecting valuable information in such solutions. To address this shortcoming, we propose V-STaR that utilizes both the correct and incorrect solutions generated during the self-improvement process to train a verifier using DPO that judges correctness of model-generated solutions. This verifier is used at inference time to select one solution among many candidate solutions. Running V-STaR for multiple iterations results in progressively better reasoners and verifiers, delivering a 4% to 17% test accuracy improvement over existing self-improvement and verification approaches on common code generation and math reasoning benchmarks with LLaMA2 models.

------------

`[2402.06512] Multimodal Clinical Trial Outcome Prediction with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06512>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 16:18:38 GMT
    Wenhao Zheng, Dongsheng Peng, Hongxia Xu, Hongtu Zhu, Tianfan Fu, Huaxiu Yao

The clinical trial is a pivotal and costly process, often spanning multiple years and requiring substantial financial resources. Therefore, the development of clinical trial outcome prediction models aims to exclude drugs likely to fail and holds the potential for significant cost savings. Recent data-driven attempts leverage deep learning methods to integrate multimodal data for predicting clinical trial outcomes. However, these approaches rely on manually designed modal-specific encoders, which limits both the extensibility to adapt new modalities and the ability to discern similar information patterns across different modalities. To address these issues, we propose a multimodal mixture-of-experts (LIFTED) approach for clinical trial outcome prediction.
Specifically, LIFTED unifies different modality data by transforming them into natural language descriptions. Then, LIFTED constructs unified noise-resilient encoders to extract information from modal-specific language descriptions.
Subsequently, a sparse Mixture-of-Experts framework is employed to further refine the representations, enabling LIFTED to identify similar information patterns across different modalities and extract more consistent representations from those patterns using the same expert model. Finally, a mixture-of-experts module is further employed to dynamically integrate different modality representations for prediction, which gives LIFTED the ability to automatically weigh different modalities and pay more attention to critical information. The experiments demonstrate that LIFTED significantly enhances performance in predicting clinical trial outcomes across all three phases compared to the best baseline, showcasing the effectiveness of our proposed key components.

------------

`[2402.06559] Diffusion-ES: Gradient-free Planning with Diffusion for Autonomous Driving and Zero-Shot Instruction Following <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06559>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:18:33 GMT
    Brian Yang, Huangyuan Su, Nikolaos Gkanatsios, Tsung-Wei Ke, Ayush Jain, Jeff Schneider, Katerina Fragkiadaki

Diffusion models excel at modeling complex and multimodal trajectory distributions for decision-making and control. Reward-gradient guided denoising has been recently proposed to generate trajectories that maximize both a differentiable reward function and the likelihood under the data distribution captured by a diffusion model. Reward-gradient guided denoising requires a differentiable reward function fitted to both clean and noised samples, limiting its applicability as a general trajectory optimizer. In this paper, we propose DiffusionES, a method that combines gradient-free optimization with trajectory denoising to optimize black-box non-differentiable objectives while staying in the data manifold. Diffusion-ES samples trajectories during evolutionary search from a diffusion model and scores them using a black-box reward function. It mutates high-scoring trajectories using a truncated diffusion process that applies a small number of noising and denoising steps, allowing for much more efficient exploration of the solution space. We show that DiffusionES achieves state-of-the-art performance on nuPlan, an established closed-loop planning benchmark for autonomous driving. Diffusion-ES outperforms existing sampling-based planners, reactive deterministic or diffusion-based policies, and reward-gradient guidance. Additionally, we show that unlike prior guidance methods, our method can optimize non-differentiable language-shaped reward functions generated by few-shot LLM prompting. When guided by a human teacher that issues instructions to follow, our method can generate novel, highly complex behaviors, such as aggressive lane weaving, which are not present in the training data. This allows us to solve the hardest nuPlan scenarios which are beyond the capabilities of existing trajectory optimization methods and driving policies.

------------

`[2402.06627] Feedback Loops With Language Models Drive In-Context Reward Hacking <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06627>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:59:29 GMT
    Alexander Pan and Erik Jones and Meena Jagadeesan and Jacob Steinhardt

Language models influence the external world: they query APIs that read and write to web pages, generate content that shapes human behavior, and run system commands as autonomous agents. These interactions form feedback loops: LLM outputs affect the world, which in turn affect subsequent LLM outputs. In this work, we show that feedback loops can cause in-context reward hacking (ICRH), where the LLM at test-time optimizes a (potentially implicit) objective but creates negative side effects in the process. For example, consider an LLM agent deployed to increase Twitter engagement; the LLM may retrieve its previous tweets into the context window and make them more controversial, increasing engagement but also toxicity. We identify and study two processes that lead to ICRH: output-refinement and policy-refinement. For these processes, evaluations on static datasets are insufficient -- they miss the feedback effects and thus cannot capture the most harmful behavior. In response, we provide three recommendations for evaluation to capture more instances of ICRH. As AI development accelerates, the effects of feedback loops will proliferate, increasing the need to understand their role in shaping LLM behavior.

------------

`[2402.05941] Character-based Outfit Generation with Vision-augmented Style Extraction via LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05941>`__

::

    Fri, 2 Feb 2024 02:11:31 GMT
    Najmeh Forouzandehmehr, Yijie Cao, Nikhil Thakurdesai, Ramin Giahi, Luyi Ma, Nima Farrokhsiar, Jianpeng Xu, Evren Korpeoglu, Kannan Achan

The outfit generation problem involves recommending a complete outfit to a user based on their interests. Existing approaches focus on recommending items based on anchor items or specific query styles but do not consider customer interests in famous characters from movie, social media, etc. In this paper, we define a new Character-based Outfit Generation (COG) problem, designed to accurately interpret character information and generate complete outfit sets according to customer specifications such as age and gender. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel framework LVA-COG that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to extract insights from customer interests (e.g., character information) and employ prompt engineering techniques for accurate understanding of customer preferences. Additionally, we incorporate text-to-image models to enhance the visual understanding and generation (factual or counterfactual) of cohesive outfits. Our framework integrates LLMs with text-to-image models and improves the customer's approach to fashion by generating personalized recommendations. With experiments and case studies, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution from multiple dimensions.

------------

`[2402.05980] Do Large Code Models Understand Programming Concepts? A Black-box Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05980>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 06:48:01 GMT
    Ashish Hooda, Mihai Christodorescu, Miltos Allamanis, Aaron Wilson, Kassem Fawaz, Somesh Jha

Large Language Models' success on text generation has also made them better at code generation and coding tasks. While a lot of work has demonstrated their remarkable performance on tasks such as code completion and editing, it is still unclear as to why. We help bridge this gap by exploring to what degree auto-regressive models understand the logical constructs of the underlying programs. We propose Counterfactual Analysis for Programming Concept Predicates (CACP) as a counterfactual testing framework to evaluate whether Large Code Models understand programming concepts. With only black-box access to the model, we use CACP to evaluate ten popular Large Code Models for four different programming concepts. Our findings suggest that current models lack understanding of concepts such as data flow and control flow.

------------

`[2402.06053] Randomness Is All You Need: Semantic Traversal of Problem-Solution Spaces with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06053>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 20:49:09 GMT
    Thomas Sandholm, Sayandev Mukherjee, Bernardo A. Huberman

We present a novel approach to exploring innovation problem and solution domains using LLM fine-tuning with a custom idea database. By semantically traversing the bi-directional problem and solution tree at different temperature levels we achieve high diversity in solution edit distance while still remaining close to the original problem statement semantically. In addition to finding a variety of solutions to a given problem, this method can also be used to refine and clarify the original problem statement. As further validation of the approach, we implemented a proof-of-concept Slack bot to serve as an innovation assistant.

------------

`[2402.06116] LLMs for Coding and Robotics Education <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06116>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 00:58:57 GMT
    Peng Shu, Huaqin Zhao, Hanqi Jiang, Yiwei Li, Shaochen Xu, Yi Pan, Zihao Wu, Zhengliang Liu, Guoyu Lu, Le Guan, Gong Chen, Xianqiao Wang Tianming Liu

Large language models and multimodal large language models have revolutionized artificial intelligence recently. An increasing number of regions are now embracing these advanced technologies. Within this context, robot coding education is garnering increasing attention. To teach young children how to code and compete in robot challenges, large language models are being utilized for robot code explanation, generation, and modification. In this paper, we highlight an important trend in robot coding education. We test several mainstream large language models on both traditional coding tasks and the more challenging task of robot code generation, which includes block diagrams. Our results show that GPT-4V outperforms other models in all of our tests but struggles with generating block diagram images.

------------

`[2402.06118] ViGoR: Improving Visual Grounding of Large Vision Language Models with Fine-Grained Reward Modeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06118>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:00:14 GMT
    Siming Yan, Min Bai, Weifeng Chen, Xiong Zhou, Qixing Huang, Li Erran Li

By combining natural language understanding and the generation capabilities and breadth of knowledge of large language models with image perception, recent large vision language models (LVLMs) have shown unprecedented reasoning capabilities in the real world. However, the generated text often suffers from inaccurate grounding in the visual input, resulting in errors such as hallucinating nonexistent scene elements, missing significant parts of the scene, and inferring incorrect attributes and relationships between objects. To address these issues, we introduce a novel framework, ViGoR (Visual Grounding Through Fine-Grained Reward Modeling) that utilizes fine-grained reward modeling to significantly enhance the visual grounding of LVLMs over pre-trained baselines. This improvement is efficiently achieved using much cheaper human evaluations instead of full supervisions, as well as automated methods. We show the effectiveness of our approach through numerous metrics on several benchmarks. Additionally, we construct a comprehensive and challenging dataset specifically designed to validate the visual grounding capabilities of LVLMs. Finally, we plan to release our human annotation comprising approximately 16,000 images and generated text pairs with fine-grained evaluations to contribute to related research in the community.

------------

`[2402.06229] Exploring Interaction Patterns for Debugging: Enhancing Conversational Capabilities of AI-assistants <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06229>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:44:27 GMT
    Bhavya Chopra, Yasharth Bajpai, Param Biyani, Gustavo Soares, Arjun Radhakrishna, Chris Parnin, Sumit Gulwani

The widespread availability of Large Language Models (LLMs) within Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) has led to their speedy adoption.
Conversational interactions with LLMs enable programmers to obtain natural language explanations for various software development tasks. However, LLMs often leap to action without sufficient context, giving rise to implicit assumptions and inaccurate responses. Conversations between developers and LLMs are primarily structured as question-answer pairs, where the developer is responsible for asking the the right questions and sustaining conversations across multiple turns. In this paper, we draw inspiration from interaction patterns and conversation analysis -- to design Robin, an enhanced conversational AI-assistant for debugging. Through a within-subjects user study with 12 industry professionals, we find that equipping the LLM to -- (1) leverage the insert expansion interaction pattern, (2) facilitate turn-taking, and (3) utilize debugging workflows -- leads to lowered conversation barriers, effective fault localization, and 5x improvement in bug resolution rates.

------------

`[2402.06334] ExaRanker-Open: Synthetic Explanation for IR using Open-Source LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06334>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 11:23:14 GMT
    Fernando Ferraretto, Thiago Laitz, Roberto Lotufo, Rodrigo Nogueira

ExaRanker recently introduced an approach to training information retrieval (IR) models, incorporating natural language explanations as additional labels.
The method addresses the challenge of limited labeled examples, leading to improvements in the effectiveness of IR models. However, the initial results were based on proprietary language models such as GPT-3.5, which posed constraints on dataset size due to its cost and data privacy. In this paper, we introduce ExaRanker-Open, where we adapt and explore the use of open-source language models to generate explanations. The method has been tested using different LLMs and datasets sizes to better comprehend the effective contribution of data augmentation. Our findings reveal that incorporating explanations consistently enhances neural rankers, with benefits escalating as the LLM size increases. Notably, the data augmentation method proves advantageous even with large datasets, as evidenced by ExaRanker surpassing the target baseline by 0.6 nDCG@10 points in our study. To encourage further advancements by the research community, we have open-sourced both the code and datasets at https://github.com/unicamp-dl/ExaRanker.

------------

`[2402.06360] CoSearchAgent: A Lightweight Collaborative Search Agent with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06360>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 12:10:00 GMT
    Peiyuan Gong, Jiamian Li, Jiaxin Mao

Collaborative search supports multiple users working together to accomplish a specific search task. Research has found that designing lightweight collaborative search plugins within instant messaging platforms aligns better with users' collaborative habits. However, due to the complexity of multi-user interaction scenarios, it is challenging to implement a fully functioning lightweight collaborative search system. Therefore, previous studies on lightweight collaborative search had to rely on the Wizard of Oz paradigm. In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have been demonstrated to interact naturally with users and achieve complex information-seeking tasks through LLM-based agents. Hence, to better support the research in collaborative search, in this demo, we propose CoSearchAgent, a lightweight collaborative search agent powered by LLMs. CoSearchAgent is designed as a Slack plugin that can support collaborative search during multi-party conversations on this platform. Equipped with the capacity to understand the queries and context in multi-user conversations and the ability to search the Web for relevant information via APIs, CoSearchAgent can respond to user queries with answers grounded on the relevant search results. It can also ask clarifying questions when the information needs are unclear. The proposed CoSearchAgent is highly flexible and would be useful for supporting further research on collaborative search. The code and demo video are accessible.

------------

`[2402.06599] On the Out-Of-Distribution Generalization of Multimodal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06599>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:21:51 GMT
    Xingxuan Zhang, Jiansheng Li, Wenjing Chu, Junjia Hai, Renzhe Xu, Yuqing Yang, Shikai Guan, Jiazheng Xu, and Peng Cui

We investigate the generalization boundaries of current Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) via comprehensive evaluation under out-of-distribution scenarios and domain-specific tasks. We evaluate their zero-shot generalization across synthetic images, real-world distributional shifts, and specialized datasets like medical and molecular imagery. Empirical results indicate that MLLMs struggle with generalization beyond common training domains, limiting their direct application without adaptation. To understand the cause of unreliable performance, we analyze three hypotheses: semantic misinterpretation, visual feature extraction insufficiency, and mapping deficiency. Results identify mapping deficiency as the primary hurdle. To address this problem, we show that in-context learning (ICL) can significantly enhance MLLMs' generalization, opening new avenues for overcoming generalization barriers. We further explore the robustness of ICL under distribution shifts and show its vulnerability to domain shifts, label shifts, and spurious correlation shifts between in-context examples and test data.

------------

`[2402.05939] Uncertainty Awareness of Large Language Models Under Code Distribution Shifts: A Benchmark Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05939>`__

::

    Fri, 12 Jan 2024 00:00:32 GMT
    Yufei Li, Simin Chen, Yanghong Guo, Wei Yang, Yue Dong, Cong Liu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have been widely employed in programming language analysis to enhance human productivity. Yet, their reliability can be compromised by various code distribution shifts, leading to inconsistent outputs. While probabilistic methods are known to mitigate such impact through uncertainty calibration and estimation, their efficacy in the language domain remains underexplored compared to their application in image-based tasks. In this work, we first introduce a large-scale benchmark dataset, incorporating three realistic patterns of code distribution shifts at varying intensities.
Then we thoroughly investigate state-of-the-art probabilistic methods applied to CodeLlama using these shifted code snippets. We observe that these methods generally improve the uncertainty awareness of CodeLlama, with increased calibration quality and higher uncertainty estimation~(UE) precision. However, our study further reveals varied performance dynamics across different criteria (e.g., calibration error vs misclassification detection) and trade-off between efficacy and efficiency, highlighting necessary methodological selection tailored to specific contexts.

------------

`[2402.06162] Wasserstein proximal operators describe score-based generative models and resolve memorization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06162>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 03:33:13 GMT
    Benjamin J. Zhang, Siting Liu, Wuchen Li, Markos A. Katsoulakis, and Stanley J. Osher

We focus on the fundamental mathematical structure of score-based generative models (SGMs). We first formulate SGMs in terms of the Wasserstein proximal operator (WPO) and demonstrate that, via mean-field games (MFGs), the WPO formulation reveals mathematical structure that describes the inductive bias of diffusion and score-based models. In particular, MFGs yield optimality conditions in the form of a pair of coupled partial differential equations: a forward-controlled Fokker-Planck (FP) equation, and a backward Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. Via a Cole-Hopf transformation and taking advantage of the fact that the cross-entropy can be related to a linear functional of the density, we show that the HJB equation is an uncontrolled FP equation. Second, with the mathematical structure at hand, we present an interpretable kernel-based model for the score function which dramatically improves the performance of SGMs in terms of training samples and training time. In addition, the WPO-informed kernel model is explicitly constructed to avoid the recently studied memorization effects of score-based generative models. The mathematical form of the new kernel-based models in combination with the use of the terminal condition of the MFG reveals new explanations for the manifold learning and generalization properties of SGMs, and provides a resolution to their memorization effects. Finally, our mathematically informed, interpretable kernel-based model suggests new scalable bespoke neural network architectures for high-dimensional applications.

------------

`[2307.07514] Explainability is NOT a Game <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07514>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 13:29:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Joao Marques-Silva [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 27 Jun 2023 09:32:49 UTC (72 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 13:29:14 UTC (73 KB)
    Joao Marques-Silva and Xuanxiang Huang

Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) aims to help human decision-makers in understanding complex machine learning (ML) models. One of the hallmarks of XAI are measures of relative feature importance, which are theoretically justified through the use of Shapley values. This paper builds on recent work and offers a simple argument for why Shapley values can provide misleading measures of relative feature importance, by assigning more importance to features that are irrelevant for a prediction, and assigning less importance to features that are relevant for a prediction. The significance of these results is that they effectively challenge the many proposed uses of measures of relative feature importance in a fast-growing range of high-stakes application domains.

------------

`[2311.09830] AutoPlanBench: Automatically generating benchmarks for LLM planners from PDDL <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09830>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:48:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Katharina Stein [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 11:55:27 UTC (2,950 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:48:41 UTC (734 KB)
    Katharina Stein, Daniel Fi\v{s}er, J\"org Hoffmann and Alexander Koller

LLMs are being increasingly used for planning-style tasks, but their capabilities for planning and reasoning are poorly understood. We present AutoPlanBench, a novel method for automatically converting planning benchmarks written in PDDL into textual descriptions and offer a benchmark dataset created with our method. We show that while the best LLM planners do well on some planning tasks, others remain out of reach of current methods.

------------

`[2312.16044] LLMLight: Large Language Models as Traffic Signal Control Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16044>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:11:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Siqi Lai [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 26 Dec 2023 13:17:06 UTC (11,767 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:11:59 UTC (10,337 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 13:02:23 UTC (10,337 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 13:21:38 UTC (10,338 KB)
    Siqi Lai, Zhao Xu, Weijia Zhang, Hao Liu and Hui Xiong

Traffic Signal Control (TSC) is a crucial component in urban traffic management, aiming to optimize road network efficiency and reduce congestion. Traditional methods in TSC, primarily based on transportation engineering and reinforcement learning (RL), often exhibit limitations in generalization across varied traffic scenarios and lack interpretability. This paper presents LLMLight, a novel framework employing Large Language Models (LLMs) as decision-making agents for TSC. Specifically, the framework begins by instructing the LLM with a knowledgeable prompt detailing real-time traffic conditions. Leveraging the advanced generalization capabilities of LLMs, LLMLight engages a reasoning and decision-making process akin to human intuition for effective traffic control. Moreover, we build LightGPT, a specialized backbone LLM tailored for TSC tasks. By learning nuanced traffic patterns and control strategies, LightGPT enhances the LLMLight framework cost-effectively. Extensive experiments on nine real-world and synthetic datasets showcase the remarkable effectiveness, generalization ability, and interpretability of LLMLight against nine transportation-based and RL-based baselines.

------------

`[2402.05391] Knowledge Graphs Meet Multi-Modal Learning: A Comprehensive Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05391>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:00:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhuo Chen [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 04:04:36 UTC (9,616 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:00:46 UTC (9,617 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 10:04:46 UTC (9,617 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 09:57:12 UTC (9,612 KB)
    Zhuo Chen, Yichi Zhang, Yin Fang, Yuxia Geng, Lingbing Guo, Xiang Chen, Qian Li, Wen Zhang, Jiaoyan Chen, Yushan Zhu, Jiaqi Li, Xiaoze Liu, Jeff Z. Pan, Ningyu Zhang, Huajun Chen

Knowledge Graphs (KGs) play a pivotal role in advancing various AI applications, with the semantic web community's exploration into multi-modal dimensions unlocking new avenues for innovation. In this survey, we carefully review over 300 articles, focusing on KG-aware research in two principal aspects: KG-driven Multi-Modal (KG4MM) learning, where KGs support multi-modal tasks, and Multi-Modal Knowledge Graph (MM4KG), which extends KG studies into the MMKG realm. We begin by defining KGs and MMKGs, then explore their construction progress. Our review includes two primary task categories: KG-aware multi-modal learning tasks, such as Image Classification and Visual Question Answering, and intrinsic MMKG tasks like Multi-modal Knowledge Graph Completion and Entity Alignment, highlighting specific research trajectories. For most of these tasks, we provide definitions, evaluation benchmarks, and additionally outline essential insights for conducting relevant research. Finally, we discuss current challenges and identify emerging trends, such as progress in Large Language Modeling and Multi-modal Pre-training strategies. This survey aims to serve as a comprehensive reference for researchers already involved in or considering delving into KG and multi-modal learning research, offering insights into the evolving landscape of MMKG research and supporting future work.

------------

`[2402.05894] Large Language Model Meets Graph Neural Network in Knowledge Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05894>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 08:08:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Shengxiang Hu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 18:33:21 UTC (437 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 08:08:57 UTC (437 KB)
    Shengxiang Hu, Guobing Zou, Song Yang, Yanglan Gan, Bofeng Zhang, Yixin Chen

Despite recent community revelations about the advancements and potential applications of Large Language Models (LLMs) in understanding Text-Attributed Graph (TAG), the deployment of LLMs for production is hindered by its high computational and storage requirements, as well as long latencies during model inference. Simultaneously, although traditional Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) are light weight and adept at learning structural features of graphs, their ability to grasp the complex semantics in TAG is somewhat constrained for real applications. To address these limitations, we concentrate on the downstream task of node classification in TAG and propose a novel graph knowledge distillation framework, termed Linguistic Graph Knowledge Distillation (LinguGKD), using LLMs as teacher models and GNNs as student models for knowledge distillation. It involves TAG-oriented instruction tuning of LLM on designed tailored prompts, followed by propagating knowledge and aligning the hierarchically learned node features from the teacher LLM to the student GNN in latent space, employing a layer-adaptive contrastive learning strategy. Through extensive experiments on a variety of LLM and GNN models and multiple benchmark datasets, the proposed LinguGKD significantly boosts the student GNN's predictive accuracy and convergence rate, without the need of extra data or model parameters. Compared to teacher LLM, distilled GNN achieves superior inference speed equipped with much fewer computing and storage demands, when surpassing the teacher LLM's classification accuracy on some of benchmark datasets.

------------

`[2305.12707] Quantifying Association Capabilities of Large Language Models and Its Implications on Privacy Leakage <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12707>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 05:31:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Jie Huang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 May 2023 04:30:35 UTC (3,986 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 05:31:11 UTC (4,222 KB)
    Hanyin Shao, Jie Huang, Shen Zheng, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang

The advancement of large language models (LLMs) brings notable improvements across various applications, while simultaneously raising concerns about potential private data exposure. One notable capability of LLMs is their ability to form associations between different pieces of information, but this raises concerns when it comes to personally identifiable information (PII). This paper delves into the association capabilities of language models, aiming to uncover the factors that influence their proficiency in associating information. Our study reveals that as models scale up, their capacity to associate entities/information intensifies, particularly when target pairs demonstrate shorter co-occurrence distances or higher co-occurrence frequencies. However, there is a distinct performance gap when associating commonsense knowledge versus PII, with the latter showing lower accuracy. Despite the proportion of accurately predicted PII being relatively small, LLMs still demonstrate the capability to predict specific instances of email addresses and phone numbers when provided with appropriate prompts. These findings underscore the potential risk to PII confidentiality posed by the evolving capabilities of LLMs, especially as they continue to expand in scale and power.

------------

`[2305.13179] Teaching Probabilistic Logical Reasoning to Transformers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13179>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:29:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Aliakbar Nafar [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 May 2023 16:08:20 UTC (8,650 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:29:19 UTC (1,792 KB)
    Aliakbar Nafar, Kristen Brent Venable, Parisa Kordjamshidi

In this paper, we evaluate the capability of transformer-based language models in making inferences over uncertain text that includes uncertain rules of reasoning. We cover both Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) and generative Large Language Models (LLMs). Our evaluation results show that both generations of language models struggle with reasoning over uncertain text. We propose a novel end-to-end fine-tuning approach, Probabilistic Constraint Training (PCT), that utilizes probabilistic logical rules as constraints in the fine-tuning phase without relying on these rules in the inference stage. To assess the effectiveness of PCT, we utilize the related corpora and, additionally, create a new and more challenging benchmark that, unlike the previous ones, uses instance-specific rules. Our study demonstrates that PCT improves the transformer-based language model's intrinsic reasoning and makes their probabilistic logical reasoning process more explicit and explainable. Furthermore, PCT equips these models to effectively handle novel situations, including higher reasoning depth, new domains, and complex probabilistic structures.

------------

`[2305.18582] Information Association for Language Model Updating by Mitigating LM-Logical Discrepancy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18582>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 06:37:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Pengfei Yu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 29 May 2023 19:48:37 UTC (66 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 06:37:51 UTC (7,932 KB)
    Pengfei Yu and Heng Ji

Large Language Models~(LLMs) struggle with providing current information due to the outdated pre-training data. Existing methods for updating LLMs, such as knowledge editing and continual fine-tuning, have significant drawbacks in generalizability of new information and the requirements on structured updating corpus. We identify the core challenge behind these drawbacks: the LM-logical discrepancy featuring the difference between language modeling probabilities and logical probabilities. To evaluate and address the core challenge, we propose a new task formulation of the information updating task that only requires the provision of an unstructured updating corpus and evaluates the performance of information updating on the generalizability to question-answer pairs pertaining to the updating information. We further propose a novel and effective pipeline approach for the task, highlighting a self-prompting-based question-answer generation process and a associative distillation methods to bridge the LM-logical discrepancy. We develop two datasets for evaluation, one sourced from news articles published in March and April 2023, and the other from the Natural Questions benchmark. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our approach, significantly increasing the factual consistency score (on a scale from 0 to 1) by up to 0.16. Furthermore, our method effectively mitigates forgetting utilizing a compact replay buffer with only 2.3% of the training tokens.

------------

`[2307.10635] SciBench: Evaluating College-Level Scientific Problem-Solving Abilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10635>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 8 Feb 2024 23:16:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Yanqiao Zhu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 20 Jul 2023 07:01:57 UTC (1,349 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 23:16:17 UTC (2,142 KB)
    Xiaoxuan Wang and Ziniu Hu and Pan Lu and Yanqiao Zhu and Jieyu Zhang and Satyen Subramaniam and Arjun R. Loomba and Shichang Zhang and Yizhou Sun and Wei Wang

Most of the existing Large Language Model (LLM) benchmarks on scientific problem reasoning focus on problems grounded in high-school subjects and are confined to elementary algebraic operations. To systematically examine the reasoning capabilities required for solving complex scientific problems, we introduce an expansive benchmark suite SciBench for LLMs. SciBench contains a carefully curated dataset featuring a range of collegiate-level scientific problems from mathematics, chemistry, and physics domains. Based on the dataset, we conduct an in-depth benchmarking study of representative open-source and proprietary LLMs with various prompting strategies. The results reveal that the current LLMs fall short of delivering satisfactory performance, with the best overall score of merely 43.22%. Furthermore, through a detailed user study, we categorize the errors made by LLMs into ten problem-solving abilities. Our analysis indicates that no single prompting strategy significantly outperforms the others and some strategies that demonstrate improvements in certain problem-solving skills could result in declines in other skills. We envision that SciBench will catalyze further developments in the reasoning abilities of LLMs, thereby ultimately contributing to scientific research and discovery.

------------

`[2309.06358] Generative Data Augmentation using LLMs improves Distributional Robustness in Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06358>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:44:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Arijit Ghosh Chowdhury [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 3 Sep 2023 03:27:06 UTC (60 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:44:59 UTC (63 KB)
    Arijit Ghosh Chowdhury, Aman Chadha

Robustness in Natural Language Processing continues to be a pertinent issue, where state of the art models under-perform under naturally shifted distributions. In the context of Question Answering, work on domain adaptation methods continues to be a growing body of research. However, very little attention has been given to the notion of domain generalization under natural distribution shifts, where the target domain is unknown. With drastic improvements in the quality and access to generative models, we answer the question: How do generated datasets influence the performance of QA models under natural distribution shifts? We perform experiments on 4 different datasets under varying amounts of distribution shift, and analyze how "in-the-wild" generation can help achieve domain generalization. We take a two-step generation approach, generating both contexts and QA pairs to augment existing datasets. Through our experiments, we demonstrate how augmenting reading comprehension datasets with generated data leads to better robustness towards natural distribution shifts.

------------

`[2309.08345] Data Distribution Bottlenecks in Grounding Language Models to Knowledge Bases <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08345>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:09:27 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhiwei Yu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Sep 2023 12:06:45 UTC (293 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 02:40:44 UTC (627 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:09:27 UTC (886 KB)
    Yiheng Shu, Zhiwei Yu

Language models (LMs) have already demonstrated remarkable abilities in understanding and generating both natural and formal language. Despite these advances, their integration with real-world environments such as large-scale knowledge bases (KBs) remains an underdeveloped area, affecting applications such as semantic parsing and indulging in "hallucinated" information. This paper is an experimental investigation aimed at uncovering the robustness challenges that LMs encounter when tasked with knowledge base question answering (KBQA). The investigation covers scenarios with inconsistent data distribution between training and inference, such as generalization to unseen domains, adaptation to various language variations, and transferability across different datasets. Our comprehensive experiments reveal that even when employed with our proposed data augmentation techniques, advanced small and large language models exhibit poor performance in various dimensions. While the LM is a promising technology, the robustness of the current form in dealing with complex environments is fragile and of limited practicality because of the data distribution issue. This calls for future research on data collection and LM learning paradims.

------------

`[2309.08968] Sorted LLaMA: Unlocking the Potential of Intermediate Layers of Large Language Models for Dynamic Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08968>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 8 Feb 2024 22:43:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Mojtaba Valipour [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 16 Sep 2023 11:58:34 UTC (392 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 22:43:04 UTC (542 KB)
    Parsa Kavehzadeh, Mojtaba Valipour, Marzieh Tahaei, Ali Ghodsi, Boxing Chen, Mehdi Rezagholizadeh

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing (NLP) by excelling at understanding and generating human-like text. However, their widespread deployment can be prohibitively expensive. SortedNet is a recent training technique for enabling dynamic inference by leveraging the modularity in networks and sorting sub-models based on computation/accuracy in a nested manner. We extend SortedNet to generative NLP tasks, making large language models dynamic without any Pre-Training and by only replacing Standard Fine-Tuning (SFT) with Sorted Fine-Tuning (SoFT). Our approach boosts model efficiency, eliminating the need for multiple models for various scenarios during inference. We show that this approach can unlock the power of intermediate layers of transformers in generating the target output. Our sub-models remain integral components of the original model, minimizing storage requirements and transition costs between different computational/latency budgets. The efficacy of our proposed method was demonstrated by applying it to tune LLaMA 2 13B on the Stanford Alpaca dataset for instruction following and TriviaQA for closed-book question answering. Our results show the superior performance of sub-models in comparison to Standard Fine-Tuning and SFT+ICT (Early-Exit), all achieved with efficient tuning and without additional memory usage during inference.

------------

`[2309.16575] A Benchmark for Learning to Translate a New Language from One Grammar Book <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16575>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 13:55:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Garrett Tanzer [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Sep 2023 16:32:28 UTC (6,977 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 13:55:53 UTC (6,977 KB)
    Garrett Tanzer, Mirac Suzgun, Eline Visser, Dan Jurafsky, Luke Melas-Kyriazi

Large language models (LLMs) can perform impressive feats with in-context learning or lightweight finetuning. It is natural to wonder how well these models adapt to genuinely new tasks, but how does one find tasks that are unseen in internet-scale training sets? We turn to a field that is explicitly motivated and bottlenecked by a scarcity of web data: low-resource languages. In this paper, we introduce MTOB (Machine Translation from One Book), a benchmark for learning to translate between English and Kalamang -- a language with less than 200 speakers and therefore virtually no presence on the web -- using several hundred pages of field linguistics reference materials. This task framing is novel in that it asks a model to learn a language from a single human-readable book of grammar explanations, rather than a large mined corpus of in-domain data, more akin to L2 learning than L1 acquisition. We demonstrate that baselines using current LLMs are promising but fall short of human performance, achieving 44.7 chrF on Kalamang to English translation and 45.8 chrF on English to Kalamang translation, compared to 51.6 and 57.0 chrF by a human who learned Kalamang from the same reference materials. We hope that MTOB will help measure LLM capabilities along a new dimension, and that the methods developed to solve it could help expand access to language technology for underserved communities by leveraging qualitatively different kinds of data than traditional machine translation.

------------

`[2310.03094] Large Language Model Cascades with Mixture of Thoughts Representations for Cost-efficient Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03094>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 8 Feb 2024 22:02:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Murong Yue [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 18:21:17 UTC (7,078 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 7 Oct 2023 01:16:45 UTC (7,078 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 22:02:22 UTC (7,097 KB)
    Murong Yue, Jie Zhao, Min Zhang, Liang Du, Ziyu Yao

Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 have exhibited remarkable performance in a variety of tasks, but this strong performance often comes with the high expense of using paid API services. In this paper, we are motivated to study building an LLM cascade to save the cost of using LLMs, particularly for performing reasoning (e.g., mathematical, causal) tasks. Our cascade pipeline follows the intuition that simpler questions can be addressed by a weaker but more affordable LLM, whereas only the challenging questions necessitate the stronger and more expensive LLM. To realize this decision-making, we consider the "answer consistency" of the weaker LLM as a signal of the question difficulty and propose several methods for the answer sampling and consistency checking, including one leveraging a mixture of two thought representations (i.e., Chain-of-Thought and Program-of-Thought). Through experiments on six reasoning benchmark datasets, with GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 being the weaker and stronger LLMs, respectively, we demonstrate that our proposed LLM cascades can achieve performance comparable to using solely the stronger LLM but require only 40% of its cost.

------------

`[2311.09656] Structured Chemistry Reasoning with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09656>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 16:35:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Siru Ouyang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 08:20:36 UTC (3,662 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 16:35:28 UTC (3,134 KB)
    Siru Ouyang, Zhuosheng Zhang, Bing Yan, Xuan Liu, Yejin Choi, Jiawei Han, Lianhui Qin

Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in diverse areas, yet struggle with complex scientific reasoning, especially in the field of chemistry. Different from the simple chemistry tasks (e.g., molecule classification) addressed in previous studies, complex chemistry problems require not only vast knowledge and precise calculation, but also compositional reasoning about rich dynamic interactions of different concepts (e.g., temperature changes). Our study shows that even advanced LLMs, like GPT-4, can fail easily in different ways. Interestingly, the errors often stem not from a lack of domain knowledge within the LLMs, but rather from the absence of an effective reasoning structure that guides the LLMs to elicit the right knowledge, incorporate the knowledge in step-by-step reasoning, and iteratively refine results for further improved quality. On this basis, we introduce StructChem, a simple yet effective prompting strategy that offers the desired guidance and substantially boosts the LLMs' chemical reasoning capability. Testing across four chemistry areas -- quantum chemistry, mechanics, physical chemistry, and kinetics -- StructChem substantially enhances GPT-4's performance, with up to 30\% peak improvement. Our analysis also underscores the unique difficulties of precise grounded reasoning in science with LLMs, highlighting a need for more research in this area. Code is available at \url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2311.13668] MAIRA-1: A specialised large multimodal model for radiology report generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13668>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:16:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Stephanie L. Hyland [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 22 Nov 2023 19:45:40 UTC (175 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:16:56 UTC (241 KB)
    Stephanie L. Hyland, Shruthi Bannur, Kenza Bouzid, Daniel C. Castro, Mercy Ranjit, Anton Schwaighofer, Fernando P\'erez-Garc\'ia, Valentina Salvatelli, Shaury Srivastav, Anja Thieme, Noel Codella, Matthew P. Lungren, Maria Teodora Wetscherek, Ozan Oktay, Javier Alvarez-Valle

We present a radiology-specific multimodal model for the task for generating radiological reports from chest X-rays (CXRs). Our work builds on the idea that large language model(s) can be equipped with multimodal capabilities through alignment with pre-trained vision encoders. On natural images, this has been shown to allow multimodal models to gain image understanding and description capabilities. Our proposed model (MAIRA-1) leverages a CXR-specific image encoder in conjunction with a fine-tuned large language model based on Vicuna-7B, and text-based data augmentation, to produce reports with state-of-the-art quality. In particular, MAIRA-1 significantly improves on the radiologist-aligned RadCliQ metric and across all lexical metrics considered. Manual review of model outputs demonstrates promising fluency and accuracy of generated reports while uncovering failure modes not captured by existing evaluation practices. More information and resources can be found on the project website: this https URL.

------------

`[2312.15842] Knowledge Distillation of LLM for Automatic Scoring of Science Education Assessments <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15842>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:56:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Ehsan  Latif [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 26 Dec 2023 01:24:25 UTC (493 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:56:03 UTC (743 KB)
    Ehsan Latif, Luyang Fang, Ping Ma, and Xiaoming Zhai

This study proposes a method for knowledge distillation (KD) of fine-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs) into smaller, more efficient, and accurate neural networks. We specifically target the challenge of deploying these models on resource-constrained devices. Our methodology involves training the smaller student model (Neural Network) using the prediction probabilities (as soft labels) of the LLM, which serves as a teacher model. This is achieved through a specialized loss function tailored to learn from the LLM's output probabilities, ensuring that the student model closely mimics the teacher's performance. To validate the performance of the KD approach, we utilized a large dataset, 7T, containing 6,684 student-written responses to science questions and three mathematical reasoning datasets with student-written responses graded by human experts. We compared accuracy with state-of-the-art (SOTA) distilled models, TinyBERT, and artificial neural network (ANN) models. Results have shown that the KD approach has 1% and 4% higher scoring accuracy than ANN and TinyBERT and comparable accuracy to the teacher model. Furthermore, the student model size is 0.02M, 10,000 times smaller in parameters and x10 faster in inferencing than the teacher model and TinyBERT, respectively. The significance of this research lies in its potential to make advanced AI technologies accessible in typical educational settings, particularly for automatic scoring.

------------

`[2402.02420] Factuality of Large Language Models in the Year 2024 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02420>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 06:36:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuxia Wang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 4 Feb 2024 09:36:31 UTC (124 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 06:36:41 UTC (124 KB)
    Yuxia Wang, Minghan Wang, Muhammad Arslan Manzoor, Fei Liu, Georgi Georgiev, Rocktim Jyoti Das, Preslav Nakov

Large language models (LLMs), especially when instruction-tuned for chat, have become part of our daily lives, freeing people from the process of searching, extracting, and integrating information from multiple sources by offering a straightforward answer to a variety of questions in a single place. Unfortunately, in many cases, LLM responses are factually incorrect, which limits their applicability in real-world scenarios. As a result, research on evaluating and improving the factuality of LLMs has attracted a lot of research attention recently. In this survey, we critically analyze existing work with the aim to identify the major challenges and their associated causes, pointing out to potential solutions for improving the factuality of LLMs, and analyzing the obstacles to automated factuality evaluation for open-ended text generation. We further offer an outlook on where future research should go.

------------

`[2402.04838] PaDeLLM-NER: Parallel Decoding in Large Language Models for Named Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04838>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:04:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinghui Lu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 13:39:38 UTC (319 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:04:21 UTC (7,989 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:51:56 UTC (7,984 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 01:52:16 UTC (7,984 KB)
    Jinghui Lu, Ziwei Yang, Yanjie Wang, Xuejing Liu, Can Huang

In this study, we aim to reduce generation latency for Named Entity Recognition (NER) with Large Language Models (LLMs). The main cause of high latency in LLMs is the sequential decoding process, which autoregressively generates all labels and mentions for NER, significantly increase the sequence length. To this end, we introduce Parallel Decoding in LLM for NE} (PaDeLLM-NER), a approach that integrates seamlessly into existing generative model frameworks without necessitating additional modules or architectural modifications. PaDeLLM-NER allows for the simultaneous decoding of all mentions, thereby reducing generation latency. Experiments reveal that PaDeLLM-NER significantly increases inference speed that is 1.76 to 10.22 times faster than the autoregressive approach for both English and Chinese. Simultaneously it maintains the quality of predictions as evidenced by the performance that is on par with the state-of-the-art across various datasets.

------------

`[2402.05130] LB-KBQA: Large-language-model and BERT based Knowledge-Based Question and Answering System <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05130>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 02:45:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhongyun Li [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 16:47:17 UTC (966 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 02:45:51 UTC (966 KB)
    Yan Zhao, Zhongyun Li, Yushan Pan, Jiaxing Wang, Yihong Wang

Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), because of its emergent abilities, has empowered various fields, one typical of which is large language models (LLMs). One of the typical application fields of Generative AI is large language models (LLMs), and the natural language understanding capability of LLM is dramatically improved when compared with conventional AI-based methods. The natural language understanding capability has always been a barrier to the intent recognition performance of the Knowledge-Based-Question-and-Answer (KBQA) system, which arises from linguistic diversity and the newly appeared intent. Conventional AI-based methods for intent recognition can be divided into semantic parsing-based and model-based approaches. However, both of the methods suffer from limited resources in intent recognition. To address this issue, we propose a novel KBQA system based on a Large Language Model(LLM) and BERT (LB-KBQA). With the help of generative AI, our proposed method could detect newly appeared intent and acquire new knowledge. In experiments on financial domain question answering, our model has demonstrated superior effectiveness.

------------

`[2309.17179] Alphazero-like Tree-Search can Guide Large Language Model Decoding and Training <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17179>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 00:13:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Xidong Feng [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 29 Sep 2023 12:20:19 UTC (487 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 00:13:46 UTC (872 KB)
    Xidong Feng, Ziyu Wan, Muning Wen, Stephen Marcus McAleer, Ying Wen, Weinan Zhang, Jun Wang

Recent works like Tree-of-Thought (ToT) and Reasoning via Planning (RAP) aim to augment the reasoning capabilities of LLMs by using tree-search algorithms to guide multi-step reasoning. These methods rely on prompting a pre-trained model to serve as a value function and focus on problems with low search depth. As a result, these methods will not work in domains where the pre-trained LLM does not have enough knowledge to serve as an effective value function or in domains that require long-horizon planning. To address these limitations, we present an AlphaZero-like tree-search learning framework for LLMs (termed TS-LLM), systematically illustrating how tree-search with a learned value function can guide LLM decoding. TS-LLM distinguishes itself in two key ways. (1) Leveraging a learned value function and AlphaZero-like algorithms, our approach can be generally adaptable to a wide range of tasks, language models of any size, and tasks of varying search depths. (2) Our approach can guide LLMs during both inference and training, iteratively improving the LLM. Empirical results across reasoning, planning, alignment, and decision-making tasks show that TS-LLM outperforms existing approaches and can handle trees with a depth of 64.

------------

`[2310.16355] RedCoast: A Lightweight Tool to Automate Distributed Training of LLMs on Any GPU/TPUs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16355>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 8 Feb 2024 23:36:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Bowen Tan [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 25 Oct 2023 04:32:35 UTC (603 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 23:36:44 UTC (1,146 KB)
    Bowen Tan, Yun Zhu, Lijuan Liu, Hongyi Wang, Yonghao Zhuang, Jindong Chen, Eric Xing, Zhiting Hu

The recent progress of AI can be largely attributed to large language models (LLMs). However, their escalating memory requirements introduce challenges for machine learning (ML) researchers and engineers. Addressing this requires developers to partition a large model to distribute it across multiple GPUs or TPUs. This necessitates considerable coding and intricate configuration efforts with existing model parallel tools, such as Megatron-LM, DeepSpeed, and Alpa. These tools require users' expertise in machine learning systems (MLSys), creating a bottleneck in LLM development, particularly for developers without MLSys background. In this work, we present RedCoast(Redco), a lightweight and user-friendly tool crafted to automate distributed training and inference for LLMs, as well as to simplify ML pipeline development. The design of Redco emphasizes two key aspects. Firstly, to automate model parallism, our study identifies two straightforward rules to generate tensor parallel strategies for any given LLM. Integrating these rules into Redco facilitates effortless distributed LLM training and inference, eliminating the need of additional coding or complex configurations. We demonstrate the effectiveness by applying Redco on a set of LLM architectures, such as GPT-J, LLaMA, T5, and OPT, up to the size of 66B. Secondly, we propose a mechanism that allows for the customization of diverse ML pipelines through the definition of merely three functions, avoiding redundant and formulaic code like multi-host related processing. This mechanism proves adaptable across a spectrum of ML algorithms, from foundational language modeling to complex algorithms like meta-learning and reinforcement learning. Consequently, Redco implementations exhibit much fewer code lines compared to their official counterparts.

------------

`[2401.15024] SliceGPT: Compress Large Language Models by Deleting Rows and Columns <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15024>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:59:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Maximilian Croci [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 26 Jan 2024 17:35:45 UTC (176 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:59:40 UTC (176 KB)
    Saleh Ashkboos, Maximilian L. Croci, Marcelo Gennari do Nascimento, Torsten Hoefler, James Hensman

Large language models have become the cornerstone of natural language processing, but their use comes with substantial costs in terms of compute and memory resources. Sparsification provides a solution to alleviate these resource constraints, and recent works have shown that trained models can be sparsified post-hoc. Existing sparsification techniques face challenges as they need additional data structures and offer constrained speedup with current hardware. In this paper we present SliceGPT, a new post-training sparsification scheme which replaces each weight matrix with a smaller (dense) matrix, reducing the embedding dimension of the network. Through extensive experimentation, we show that SliceGPT can remove up to 25% of the model parameters (including embeddings) for LLAMA2-70B, OPT 66B and Phi-2 models while maintaining 99%, 99% and 90% zero-shot task performance of the dense model respectively. Our sliced models run on fewer GPUs and run faster without any additional code optimization: on 24GB consumer GPUs we reduce the total compute for inference on LLAMA2-70B to 64% of that of the dense model; on 40GB A100 GPUs we reduce it to 66%. We offer a new insight, computational invariance in transformer networks, which enables SliceGPT and we hope it will inspire and enable future avenues to reduce memory and computation demands for pre-trained models. Code is available at: this https URL

------------

`[2402.04004] Understanding the Effect of Noise in LLM Training Data with Algorithmic Chains of Thought <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04004>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:56:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Alex Havrilla [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 13:59:56 UTC (1,430 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:56:38 UTC (1,429 KB)
    Alex Havrilla, Maia Iyer

During both pretraining and fine-tuning, Large Language Models (\textbf{LLMs}) are trained on trillions of tokens of text of widely varying quality. Both phases of training typically involve heuristically filtering out ``low-quality'' or \textit{noisy} training samples, yet little is known quantitatively about how the type or intensity of noise affects downstream performance. In this work, we study how noise in chain of thought (\textbf{CoT}) impacts task performance in the highly-controlled setting of algorithmically solvable tasks. First, we develop the Traced Integer (\textbf{TInt}) framework to generate highly customizable noised execution traces for any arithmetic function on lists of integers. We then define two types of noise: \textit{static} noise, a local form of noise which is applied after the CoT trace is computed, and \textit{dynamic} noise, a global form of noise which propagates errors in the trace as it is computed. We then evaluate the test performance of pretrained models both prompted and fine-tuned on noised datasets with varying levels of dataset contamination and intensity. We find fine-tuned models are extremely robust to high levels of static noise but struggle significantly more with lower levels of dynamic noise. In contrast, few-shot prompted models appear more sensitive to even static noise. We conclude with a discussion of how our findings impact noise filtering best-practices, in particular emphasizing the importance of removing samples containing destructive dynamic noise with global errors.

------------

`[2402.05203] Bellman Conformal Inference: Calibrating Prediction Intervals For Time Series <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05203>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 16:47:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Zitong Yang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 19:15:33 UTC (1,504 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 16:47:02 UTC (1,504 KB)
    Zitong Yang, Emmanuel Cand\`es, Lihua Lei

We introduce Bellman Conformal Inference (BCI), a framework that wraps around any time series forecasting models and provides approximately calibrated prediction intervals. Unlike existing methods, BCI is able to leverage multi-step ahead forecasts and explicitly optimize the average interval lengths by solving a one-dimensional stochastic control problem (SCP) at each time step. In particular, we use the dynamic programming algorithm to find the optimal policy for the SCP. We prove that BCI achieves long-term coverage under arbitrary distribution shifts and temporal dependence, even with poor multi-step ahead forecasts. We find empirically that BCI avoids uninformative intervals that have infinite lengths and generates substantially shorter prediction intervals in multiple applications when compared with existing methods.

------------

`[2309.00155] LLM in the Shell: Generative Honeypots <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00155>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 14:03:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Carlos Catania Dr [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 31 Aug 2023 22:05:46 UTC (658 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 14:03:08 UTC (1,029 KB)
    Muris Sladi\'c and Veronica Valeros and Carlos Catania and Sebastian Garcia

Honeypots are essential tools in cybersecurity. However, most of them (even the high-interaction ones) lack the required realism to engage and fool human attackers. This limitation makes them easily discernible, hindering their effectiveness. This work introduces a novel method to create dynamic and realistic software honeypots based on Large Language Models. Preliminary results indicate that LLMs can create credible and dynamic honeypots capable of addressing important limitations of previous honeypots, such as deterministic responses, lack of adaptability, etc. We evaluated the realism of each command by conducting an experiment with human attackers who needed to say if the answer from the honeypot was fake or not. Our proposed honeypot, called shelLM, reached an accuracy of 0.92. The source code and prompts necessary for replicating the experiments have been made publicly available.

------------

`[2310.18235] Davidsonian Scene Graph: Improving Reliability in Fine-grained Evaluation for Text-to-Image Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18235>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:03:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Jaemin Cho [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 27 Oct 2023 16:20:10 UTC (13,458 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 30 Oct 2023 16:00:49 UTC (13,458 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:03:23 UTC (13,461 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 13 Mar 2024 21:58:59 UTC (13,461 KB)
    Jaemin Cho, Yushi Hu, Roopal Garg, Peter Anderson, Ranjay Krishna, Jason Baldridge, Mohit Bansal, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Su Wang

Evaluating text-to-image models is notoriously difficult. A strong recent approach for assessing text-image faithfulness is based on QG/A (question generation and answering), which uses pre-trained foundational models to automatically generate a set of questions and answers from the prompt, and output images are scored based on whether these answers extracted with a visual question answering model are consistent with the prompt-based answers. This kind of evaluation is naturally dependent on the quality of the underlying QG and VQA models. We identify and address several reliability challenges in existing QG/A work: (a) QG questions should respect the prompt (avoiding hallucinations, duplications, and omissions) and (b) VQA answers should be consistent (not asserting that there is no motorcycle in an image while also claiming the motorcycle is blue). We address these issues with Davidsonian Scene Graph (DSG), an empirically grounded evaluation framework inspired by formal semantics, which is adaptable to any QG/A frameworks. DSG produces atomic and unique questions organized in dependency graphs, which (i) ensure appropriate semantic coverage and (ii) sidestep inconsistent answers. With extensive experimentation and human evaluation on a range of model configurations (LLM, VQA, and T2I), we empirically demonstrate that DSG addresses the challenges noted above. Finally, we present DSG-1k, an open-sourced evaluation benchmark that includes 1,060 prompts, covering a wide range of fine-grained semantic categories with a balanced distribution. We release the DSG-1k prompts and the corresponding DSG questions.

------------

`[2401.03630] Why Solving Multi-agent Path Finding with Large Language Model has not Succeeded Yet <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03630>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:48:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Weizhe Chen [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 8 Jan 2024 02:22:04 UTC (889 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 17:48:19 UTC (1,633 KB)
    Weizhe Chen, Sven Koenig, Bistra Dilkina

With the explosive influence caused by the success of large language models (LLM) like ChatGPT and GPT-4, there has been an extensive amount of recent work showing that foundation models can be used to solve a large variety of tasks. However, there is very limited work that shares insights on multi-agent planning. Multi-agent planning is different from other domains by combining the difficulty of multi-agent coordination and planning, and making it hard to leverage external tools to facilitate the reasoning needed. In this paper, we focus on the problem of multi-agent path finding (MAPF), which is also known as multi-robot route planning, and study the performance of solving MAPF with LLMs. We first show the motivating success on an empty room map without obstacles, then the failure to plan on the harder room map and maze map of the standard MAPF benchmark. We present our position on why directly solving MAPF with LLMs has not been successful yet, and we use various experiments to support our hypothesis. Based on our results, we discussed how researchers with different backgrounds could help with this problem from different perspectives.

------------

`[2402.03781] MolTC: Towards Molecular Relational Modeling In Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03781>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:54:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Junfeng Fang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:51:56 UTC (7,820 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:54:54 UTC (7,844 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 04:28:48 UTC (7,846 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:39:46 UTC (7,849 KB)
    [v5] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:03:13 UTC (7,853 KB)
    Junfeng Fang, Shuai Zhang, Chang Wu, Zhiyuan Liu, Sihang Li, Kun Wang, Wenjie Du and Xiang Wang

Molecular Relational Learning (MRL), aiming to understand interactions between molecular pairs, plays a pivotal role in advancing biochemical research. Recently, the adoption of large language models (LLMs), known for their vast knowledge repositories and advanced logical inference capabilities, has emerged as a promising way for efficient and effective MRL. Despite their potential, these methods predominantly rely on the textual data, thus not fully harnessing the wealth of structural information inherent in molecular graphs. Moreover, the absence of a unified framework exacerbates the issue of information underutilization, as it hinders the sharing of interaction mechanism learned across diverse datasets. To address these challenges, this work proposes a novel LLM-based multi-modal framework for Molecular inTeraction prediction following Chain-of-Thought (CoT) theory, termed MolTC, which effectively integrate graphical information of two molecules in pair. For achieving a unified MRL, MolTC innovatively develops a dynamic parameter-sharing strategy for cross-dataset information sharing. Moreover, to train MolTC efficiently, we introduce a Multi-hierarchical CoT concept to refine its training paradigm, and conduct a comprehensive Molecular Interactive Instructions dataset for the development of biochemical LLMs involving MRL. Our experiments, conducted across various datasets involving over 4,000,000 molecular pairs, exhibit the superiority of our method over current GNN and LLM-based baselines. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.05650] Rocks Coding, Not Development--A Human-Centric, Experimental Evaluation of LLM-Supported SE Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05650>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:20:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Huilong Ning [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 13:07:31 UTC (1,239 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:20:18 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:16:34 UTC (1,285 KB)
    Wei Wang, Huilong Ning, Gaowei Zhang, Libo Liu and Yi Wang

Recently, large language models (LLM) based generative AI has been gaining momentum for their impressive high-quality performances in multiple domains, particularly after the release of the ChatGPT. Many believe that they have the potential to perform general-purpose problem-solving in software development and replace human software developers. Nevertheless, there are in a lack of serious investigation into the capability of these LLM techniques in fulfilling software development tasks. In a controlled 2 x 2 between-subject experiment with 109 participants, we examined whether and to what degree working with ChatGPT was helpful in the coding task and typical software development task and how people work with ChatGPT. We found that while ChatGPT performed well in solving simple coding problems, its performance in supporting typical software development tasks was not that good. We also observed the interactions between participants and ChatGPT and found the relations between the interactions and the outcomes. Our study thus provides first-hand insights into using ChatGPT to fulfill software engineering tasks with real-world developers and motivates the need for novel interaction mechanisms that help developers effectively work with large language models to achieve desired outcomes.

------------

`[2401.03003] AST-T5: Structure-Aware Pretraining for Code Generation and Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03003>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 9 Feb 2024 05:15:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Linyuan Gong [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 5 Jan 2024 06:51:08 UTC (387 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 05:15:07 UTC (430 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 7 Mar 2024 05:03:11 UTC (430 KB)
    Linyuan Gong, Mostafa Elhoushi, Alvin Cheung

Large language models (LLMs) have made significant advancements in code-related tasks, yet many LLMs treat code as simple sequences, neglecting its structured nature. We introduce AST-T5, a novel pretraining paradigm that leverages the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) for enhanced code generation, transpilation, and understanding. Using dynamic programming, our AST-Aware Segmentation retains code structure, while our AST-Aware Span Corruption objective equips the model to reconstruct various code structures. Unlike other models, AST-T5 avoids intricate program analyses or architectural changes, so it integrates seamlessly with any encoder-decoder Transformer. Evaluations show that AST-T5 consistently outperforms similar-sized LMs across various code-related tasks. Structure-awareness makes AST-T5 particularly powerful in code-to-code tasks, surpassing CodeT5 by 2 points in exact match score for the Bugs2Fix task and by 3 points in exact match score for Java-C# Transpilation in CodeXGLUE. Our code and model are publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.05436] Fair Coresets via Optimal Transport <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05436>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 8 Feb 2024 21:52:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Niccol Dalmasso [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 9 Nov 2023 15:21:56 UTC (1,468 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 21:52:44 UTC (1,515 KB)
    Zikai Xiong, Niccol\`o Dalmasso, Shubham Sharma, Freddy Lecue, Daniele Magazzeni, Vamsi K. Potluru, Tucker Balch, Manuela Veloso

Data distillation and coresets have emerged as popular approaches to generate a smaller representative set of samples for downstream learning tasks to handle large-scale datasets. At the same time, machine learning is being increasingly applied to decision-making processes at a societal level, making it imperative for modelers to address inherent biases towards subgroups present in the data. Current approaches create fair synthetic representative samples by optimizing local properties relative to the original samples, but their effect on downstream learning processes has yet to be explored. In this work, we present fair Wasserstein coresets (FWC), a novel coreset approach which generates fair synthetic representative samples along with sample-level weights to be used in downstream learning tasks. FWC minimizes the Wasserstein distance between the original dataset and the weighted synthetic samples while enforcing demographic parity. We show that an unconstrained version of FWC is equivalent to Lloyd's algorithm for k-medians and k-means clustering. Experiments conducted on both synthetic and real datasets show that FWC: (i) achieves a competitive fairness-performance tradeoff in downstream models compared to existing approaches, (ii) improves downstream fairness when added to the existing training data and (iii) can be used to reduce biases in predictions from large language models (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4).

------------

`[2401.14423] Prompt Design and Engineering: Introduction and Advanced Methods <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14423>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 8 Feb 2024 21:40:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Xavier Amatriain [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 Jan 2024 06:20:18 UTC (9,279 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 07:06:21 UTC (11,883 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 21:40:47 UTC (11,885 KB)
    Xavier Amatriain

Prompt design and engineering has rapidly become essential for maximizing the potential of large language models. In this paper, we introduce core concepts, advanced techniques like Chain-of-Thought and Reflection, and the principles behind building LLM-based agents. Finally, we provide a survey of tools for prompt engineers.
