240215
========

`[2402.08755] LLM-driven Imitation of Subrational Behavior : Illusion or Reality? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08755>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 19:46:39 GMT
    Andrea Coletta, Kshama Dwarakanath, Penghang Liu, Svitlana Vyetrenko, Tucker Balch

Modeling subrational agents, such as humans or economic households, is inherently challenging due to the difficulty in calibrating reinforcement learning models or collecting data that involves human subjects. Existing work highlights the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to address complex reasoning tasks and mimic human communication, while simulation using LLMs as agents shows emergent social behaviors, potentially improving our comprehension of human conduct. In this paper, we propose to investigate the use of LLMs to generate synthetic human demonstrations, which are then used to learn subrational agent policies though Imitation Learning. We make an assumption that LLMs can be used as implicit computational models of humans, and propose a framework to use synthetic demonstrations derived from LLMs to model subrational behaviors that are characteristic of humans (e.g., myopic behavior or preference for risk aversion). We experimentally evaluate the ability of our framework to model sub-rationality through four simple scenarios, including the well-researched ultimatum game and marshmallow experiment. To gain confidence in our framework, we are able to replicate well-established findings from prior human studies associated with the above scenarios. We conclude by discussing the potential benefits, challenges and limitations of our framework.

------------

`[2402.08806] Combining Insights From Multiple Large Language Models Improves Diagnostic Accuracy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08806>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 21:24:21 GMT
    Gioele Barabucci, Victor Shia, Eugene Chu, Benjamin Harack, Nathan Fu

Background: Large language models (LLMs) such as OpenAI's GPT-4 or Google's PaLM 2 are proposed as viable diagnostic support tools or even spoken of as replacements for "curbside consults". However, even LLMs specifically trained on medical topics may lack sufficient diagnostic accuracy for real-life applications.
Methods: Using collective intelligence methods and a dataset of 200 clinical vignettes of real-life cases, we assessed and compared the accuracy of differential diagnoses obtained by asking individual commercial LLMs (OpenAI GPT-4, Google PaLM 2, Cohere Command, Meta Llama 2) against the accuracy of differential diagnoses synthesized by aggregating responses from combinations of the same LLMs.
Results: We find that aggregating responses from multiple, various LLMs leads to more accurate differential diagnoses (average accuracy for 3 LLMs: $75.3\%\pm 1.6pp$) compared to the differential diagnoses produced by single LLMs (average accuracy for single LLMs: $59.0\%\pm 6.1pp$).
Discussion: The use of collective intelligence methods to synthesize differential diagnoses combining the responses of different LLMs achieves two of the necessary steps towards advancing acceptance of LLMs as a diagnostic support tool: (1) demonstrate high diagnostic accuracy and (2) eliminate dependence on a single commercial vendor.

------------

`[2402.08859] Large Language Model with Graph Convolution for Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08859>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 00:04:33 GMT
    Yingpeng Du, Ziyan Wang, Zhu Sun, Haoyan Chua, Hongzhi Liu, Zhonghai Wu, Yining Ma, Jie Zhang, Youchen Sun

In recent years, efforts have been made to use text information for better user profiling and item characterization in recommendations. However, text information can sometimes be of low quality, hindering its effectiveness for real-world applications. With knowledge and reasoning capabilities capsuled in Large Language Models (LLMs), utilizing LLMs emerges as a promising way for description improvement. However, existing ways of prompting LLMs with raw texts ignore structured knowledge of user-item interactions, which may lead to hallucination problems like inconsistent description generation. To this end, we propose a Graph-aware Convolutional LLM method to elicit LLMs to capture high-order relations in the user-item graph. To adapt text-based LLMs with structured graphs, We use the LLM as an aggregator in graph processing, allowing it to understand graph-based information step by step. Specifically, the LLM is required for description enhancement by exploring multi-hop neighbors layer by layer, thereby propagating information progressively in the graph. To enable LLMs to capture large-scale graph information, we break down the description task into smaller parts, which drastically reduces the context length of the token input with each step. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets show that our method consistently outperforms state-of-the-art methods.

------------

`[2402.08939] Premise Order Matters in Reasoning with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08939>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 04:50:18 GMT
    Xinyun Chen, Ryan A. Chi, Xuezhi Wang, Denny Zhou

Large language models (LLMs) have accomplished remarkable reasoning performance in various domains. However, in the domain of reasoning tasks, we discover a frailty: LLMs are surprisingly brittle to the ordering of the premises, despite the fact that such ordering does not alter the underlying task. In particular, we observe that LLMs achieve the best performance when the premise order aligns with the context required in intermediate reasoning steps.
For example, in deductive reasoning tasks, presenting the premises in the same order as the ground truth proof in the prompt (as opposed to random ordering) drastically increases the model's accuracy. We first examine the effect of premise ordering on deductive reasoning on a variety of LLMs, and our evaluation shows that permuting the premise order can cause a performance drop of over 30%. In addition, we release the benchmark R-GSM, based on GSM8K, to examine the ordering effect for mathematical problem-solving, and we again observe a significant drop in accuracy, relative to the original GSM8K benchmark.

------------

`[2402.08955] Using Counterfactual Tasks to Evaluate the Generality of Analogical Reasoning in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08955>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 05:52:23 GMT
    Martha Lewis and Melanie Mitchell

Large language models (LLMs) have performed well on several reasoning benchmarks, including ones that test analogical reasoning abilities. However, it has been debated whether they are actually performing humanlike abstract reasoning or instead employing less general processes that rely on similarity to what has been seen in their training data. Here we investigate the generality of analogy-making abilities previously claimed for LLMs (Webb, Holyoak, & Lu, 2023). We take one set of analogy problems used to evaluate LLMs and create a set of "counterfactual" variants-versions that test the same abstract reasoning abilities but that are likely dissimilar from any pre-training data. We test humans and three GPT models on both the original and counterfactual problems, and show that, while the performance of humans remains high for all the problems, the GPT models' performance declines sharply on the counterfactual set. This work provides evidence that, despite previously reported successes of LLMs on analogical reasoning, these models lack the robustness and generality of human analogy-making.

------------

`[2402.08957] MUSTARD: Mastering Uniform Synthesis of Theorem and Proof Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08957>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 05:57:58 GMT
    Yinya Huang, Xiaohan Lin, Zhengying Liu, Qingxing Cao, Huajian Xin, Haiming Wang, Zhenguo Li, Linqi Song, Xiaodan Liang

Recent large language models (LLMs) have witnessed significant advancement in various tasks, including mathematical reasoning and theorem proving. As these two tasks require strict and formal multi-step inference, they are appealing domains for exploring the reasoning ability of LLMs but still face important challenges. Previous studies such as Chain-of-Thought (CoT) have revealed the effectiveness of intermediate steps guidance. However, such step-wise annotation requires heavy labor, leading to insufficient training steps for current benchmarks. To fill this gap, this work introduces MUSTARD, a data generation framework that masters uniform synthesis of theorem and proof data of high quality and diversity. MUSTARD synthesizes data in three stages: (1) It samples a few mathematical concept seeds as the problem category. (2) Then, it prompts a generative language model with the sampled concepts to obtain both the problems and their step-wise formal solutions. (3) Lastly, the framework utilizes a proof assistant (e.g., Lean Prover) to filter the valid proofs. With the proposed MUSTARD, we present a theorem-and-proof benchmark MUSTARDSAUCE with 5,866 valid data points. Each data point contains an informal statement, an informal proof, and a translated formal proof that passes the prover validation. We perform extensive analysis and demonstrate that MUSTARD generates validated high-quality step-by-step data. We further apply the MUSTARDSAUCE for fine-tuning smaller language models. The fine-tuned Llama 2-7B achieves a 15.41% average relative performance gain in automated theorem proving, and 8.18% in math word problems. Codes and data are available at https://github.com/Eleanor-H/MUSTARD.

------------

`[2402.08968] GrounDial: Human-norm Grounded Safe Dialog Response Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08968>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 06:25:50 GMT
    Siwon Kim, Shuyang Dai, Mohammad Kachuee, Shayan Ray, Tara Taghavi, and Sungroh Yoon

Current conversational AI systems based on large language models (LLMs) are known to generate unsafe responses, agreeing to offensive user input or including toxic content. Previous research aimed to alleviate the toxicity, by fine-tuning LLM with manually annotated safe dialogue histories. However, the dependency on additional tuning requires substantial costs. To remove the dependency, we propose GrounDial, where response safety is achieved by grounding responses to commonsense social rules without requiring fine-tuning.
A hybrid approach of in-context learning and human-norm-guided decoding of GrounDial enables the response to be quantitatively and qualitatively safer even without additional data or tuning.

------------

`[2402.09052] L3GO: Language Agents with Chain-of-3D-Thoughts for Generating Unconventional Objects <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09052>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 09:51:05 GMT
    Yutaro Yamada, Khyathi Chandu, Yuchen Lin, Jack Hessel, Ilker Yildirim, Yejin Choi

Diffusion-based image generation models such as DALL-E 3 and Stable Diffusion-XL demonstrate remarkable capabilities in generating images with realistic and unique compositions. Yet, these models are not robust in precisely reasoning about physical and spatial configurations of objects, especially when instructed with unconventional, thereby out-of-distribution descriptions, such as "a chair with five legs". In this paper, we propose a language agent with chain-of-3D-thoughts (L3GO), an inference-time approach that can reason about part-based 3D mesh generation of unconventional objects that current data-driven diffusion models struggle with. More concretely, we use large language models as agents to compose a desired object via trial-and-error within the 3D simulation environment. To facilitate our investigation, we develop a new benchmark, Unconventionally Feasible Objects (UFO), as well as SimpleBlenv, a wrapper environment built on top of Blender where language agents can build and compose atomic building blocks via API calls. Human and automatic GPT-4V evaluations show that our approach surpasses the standard GPT-4 and other language agents (e.g., ReAct and Reflexion) for 3D mesh generation on ShapeNet. Moreover, when tested on our UFO benchmark, our approach outperforms other state-of-the-art text-to-2D image and text-to-3D models based on human evaluation.

------------

`[2402.09099] Exploring Neuron Interactions and Emergence in LLMs: From the Multifractal Analysis Perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09099>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 11:20:09 GMT
    Xiongye Xiao, Chenyu Zhou, Heng Ping, Defu Cao, Yaxing Li, Yizhuo Zhou, Shixuan Li, Paul Bogdan

Prior studies on the emergence in large models have primarily focused on how the functional capabilities of large language models (LLMs) scale with model size. Our research, however, transcends this traditional paradigm, aiming to deepen our understanding of the emergence within LLMs by placing a special emphasis not just on the model size but more significantly on the complex behavior of neuron interactions during the training process. By introducing the concepts of "self-organization" and "multifractal analysis," we explore how neuron interactions dynamically evolve during training, leading to "emergence," mirroring the phenomenon in natural systems where simple micro-level interactions give rise to complex macro-level behaviors. To quantitatively analyze the continuously evolving interactions among neurons in large models during training, we propose the Neuron-based Multifractal Analysis (NeuroMFA).
Utilizing NeuroMFA, we conduct a comprehensive examination of the emergent behavior in LLMs through the lens of both model size and training process, paving new avenues for research into the emergence in large models.

------------

`[2402.09132] Exploring the Adversarial Capabilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09132>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:28:38 GMT
    Lukas Struppek, Minh Hieu Le, Dominik Hintersdorf, Kristian Kersting

The proliferation of large language models (LLMs) has sparked widespread and general interest due to their strong language generation capabilities, offering great potential for both industry and research. While previous research delved into the security and privacy issues of LLMs, the extent to which these models can exhibit adversarial behavior remains largely unexplored. Addressing this gap, we investigate whether common publicly available LLMs have inherent capabilities to perturb text samples to fool safety measures, so-called adversarial examples resp.~attacks. More specifically, we investigate whether LLMs are inherently able to craft adversarial examples out of benign samples to fool existing safe rails. Our experiments, which focus on hate speech detection, reveal that LLMs succeed in finding adversarial perturbations, effectively undermining hate speech detection systems. Our findings carry significant implications for (semi-)autonomous systems relying on LLMs, highlighting potential challenges in their interaction with existing systems and safety measures.

------------

`[2402.09147] Into the Unknown: Self-Learning Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09147>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:56:58 GMT
    Teddy Ferdinan, Jan Koco\'n, Przemys{\l}aw Kazienko

We address the main problem of self-learning LLM: the question of what to learn. We propose a self-learning LLM framework that enables an LLM to independently learn previously unknown knowledge through self-assessment of their own hallucinations. Using the hallucination score, we introduce a new concept of Points in The Unknown (PiUs), along with one extrinsic and three intrinsic methods for automatic PiUs identification. It facilitates the creation of a self-learning loop that focuses exclusively on the knowledge gap in Points in The Unknown, resulting in a reduced hallucination score. We also developed evaluation metrics for gauging an LLM's self-learning capability. Our experiments revealed that 7B-Mistral models that have been finetuned or aligned are capable of self-learning considerably well. Our self-learning concept allows more efficient LLM updates and opens new perspectives for knowledge exchange. It may also increase public trust in AI.

------------

`[2402.09161] Role-Playing Simulation Games using ChatGPT <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09161>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:24:21 GMT
    Rita Stampfl, Igor Ivki\'c and Barbara Geyer

Since the COVID-19 pandemic, educational institutions have embarked on digital transformation projects. The success of these projects depends on integrating new technologies and understanding the needs of digitally literate students. The "learning by doing" approach suggests that real success in learning new skills is achieved when students can try out and practise these skills. In this article, we demonstrate how Large Language Models (LLMs) can enhance the quality of teaching by using ChatGPT in a role-playing simulation game scenario to promote active learning. Moreover, we discuss how LLMs can boost students' interest in learning by allowing them to practice real-life scenarios using ChatGPT.

------------

`[2402.09221] Spectral Filters, Dark Signals, and Attention Sinks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09221>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:01:07 GMT
    Nicola Cancedda

Projecting intermediate representations onto the vocabulary is an increasingly popular interpretation tool for transformer-based LLMs, also known as the logit lens. We propose a quantitative extension to this approach and define spectral filters on intermediate representations based on partitioning the singular vectors of the vocabulary embedding and unembedding matrices into bands. We find that the signals exchanged in the tail end of the spectrum are responsible for attention sinking (Xiao et al. 2023), of which we provide an explanation. We find that the loss of pretrained models can be kept low despite suppressing sizable parts of the embedding spectrum in a layer-dependent way, as long as attention sinking is preserved. Finally, we discover that the representation of tokens that draw attention from many tokens have large projections on the tail end of the spectrum.

------------

`[2402.09334] AuditLLM: A Tool for Auditing Large Language Models Using Multiprobe Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09334>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 17:31:04 GMT
    Maryam Amirizaniani, Tanya Roosta, Aman Chadha, Chirag Shah

As Large Language Models (LLMs) gain wider adoption in various contexts, it becomes crucial to ensure they are reasonably safe, consistent, and reliable for an application at hand. This may require probing or auditing them. Probing LLMs with varied iterations of a single question could reveal potential inconsistencies in their knowledge or functionality. However, a tool for performing such audits with simple workflow and low technical threshold is lacking. In this demo, we introduce "AuditLLM," a novel tool designed to evaluate the performance of various LLMs in a methodical way. AuditLLM's core functionality lies in its ability to test a given LLM by auditing it using multiple probes generated from a single question, thereby identifying any inconsistencies in the model's understanding or operation. A reasonably robust, reliable, and consistent LLM should output semantically similar responses for a question asked differently or by different people. Based on this assumption, AuditLLM produces easily interpretable results regarding the LLM's consistencies from a single question that the user enters. A certain level of inconsistency has been shown to be an indicator of potential bias, hallucinations, and other issues. One could then use the output of AuditLLM to further investigate issues with the aforementioned LLM. To facilitate demonstration and practical uses, AuditLLM offers two key modes: (1) Live mode which allows instant auditing of LLMs by analyzing responses to real-time queries; (2) Batch mode which facilitates comprehensive LLM auditing by processing multiple queries at once for in-depth analysis. This tool is beneficial for both researchers and general users, as it enhances our understanding of LLMs' capabilities in generating responses, using a standardized auditing platform.

------------

`[2402.09346] Developing a Framework for Auditing Large Language Models Using Human-in-the-Loop <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09346>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 17:49:31 GMT
    Maryam Amirizaniani, Jihan Yao, Adrian Lavergne, Elizabeth Snell Okada, Aman Chadha, Tanya Roosta, Chirag Shah

As LLMs become more pervasive across various users and scenarios, identifying potential issues when using these models becomes essential. Examples include bias, inconsistencies, and hallucination. Although auditing the LLM for these problems is desirable, it is far from being easy or solved. An effective method is to probe the LLM using different versions of the same question. This could expose inconsistencies in its knowledge or operation, indicating potential for bias or hallucination. However, to operationalize this auditing method at scale, we need an approach to create those probes reliably and automatically.
In this paper we propose an automatic and scalable solution, where one uses a different LLM along with human-in-the-loop. This approach offers verifiability and transparency, while avoiding circular reliance on the same LLMs, and increasing scientific rigor and generalizability. Specifically, we present a novel methodology with two phases of verification using humans: standardized evaluation criteria to verify responses, and a structured prompt template to generate desired probes. Experiments on a set of questions from TruthfulQA dataset show that we can generate a reliable set of probes from one LLM that can be used to audit inconsistencies in a different LLM. The criteria for generating and applying auditing probes is generalizable to various LLMs regardless of the underlying structure or training mechanism.

------------

`[2402.09390] HGOT: Hierarchical Graph of Thoughts for Retrieval-Augmented In-Context Learning in Factuality Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09390>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:41:19 GMT
    Yihao Fang, Stephen W. Thomas, Xiaodan Zhu

With the widespread adoption of large language models (LLMs) in numerous applications, the challenge of factuality and the propensity for hallucinations raises significant concerns. To address this issue, particularly in retrieval-augmented in-context learning, we introduce the hierarchical graph of thoughts (HGOT), a structured, multi-layered graph approach designed to enhance the retrieval of pertinent passages during in-context learning. The framework utilizes the emergent planning capabilities of LLMs, employing the divide-and-conquer strategy to break down complex queries into manageable sub-queries. It refines self-consistency majority voting for answer selection, which incorporates the recently proposed citation recall and precision metrics to assess the quality of thoughts, linking an answer's credibility intrinsically to the thought's quality. This methodology introduces a weighted system in majority voting, prioritizing answers based on the citation quality of their thoughts. Additionally, we propose a scoring mechanism for evaluating retrieved passages, considering factors such as citation frequency and quality, self-consistency confidence, and the retrieval module's ranking. Experiments reveal that HGOT outperforms other retrieval-augmented in-context learning methods, including Demonstrate-Search-Predict (DSP), ReAct, Self-Ask, and Retrieve-then-Read on different datasets by as much as $7\%$, demonstrating its efficacy in enhancing the factuality of LLMs.

------------

`[2402.09391] LlaSMol: Advancing Large Language Models for Chemistry with a Large-Scale, Comprehensive, High-Quality Instruction Tuning Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09391>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:42:25 GMT
    Botao Yu, Frazier N. Baker, Ziqi Chen, Xia Ning, Huan Sun

Chemistry plays a crucial role in many domains, such as drug discovery and material science. While large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 exhibit remarkable capabilities on natural language processing tasks, existing work shows their performance on chemistry tasks is discouragingly low. In this paper, however, we demonstrate that our developed LLMs can achieve very strong results on a comprehensive set of chemistry tasks, outperforming the most advanced GPT-4 across all the tasks by a substantial margin and approaching the SoTA task-specific models. The key to our success is a large-scale, comprehensive, high-quality dataset for instruction tuning named SMolInstruct.
It contains 14 meticulously selected chemistry tasks and over three million high-quality samples, laying a solid foundation for training and evaluating LLMs for chemistry. Based on SMolInstruct, we fine-tune a set of open-source LLMs, among which, we find that Mistral serves as the best base model for chemistry tasks. We further conduct analysis on the impact of trainable parameters, providing insights for future research.

------------

`[2402.08702] PRompt Optimization in Multi-Step Tasks (PROMST): Integrating Human Feedback and Preference Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08702>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 16:38:01 GMT
    Yongchao Chen, Jacob Arkin, Yilun Hao, Yang Zhang, Nicholas Roy, Chuchu Fan

Prompt optimization aims to find the best prompt to a large language model (LLM) for a given task. LLMs have been successfully used to help find and improve prompt candidates for single-step tasks. However, realistic tasks for agents are multi-step and introduce new challenges: (1) Prompt content is likely to be more extensive and complex, making it more difficult for LLMs to analyze errors, (2) the impact of an individual step is difficult to evaluate, and (3) different people may have varied preferences about task execution.
While humans struggle to optimize prompts, they are good at providing feedback about LLM outputs; we therefore introduce a new LLM-driven discrete prompt optimization framework that incorporates human-designed feedback rules about potential errors to automatically offer direct suggestions for improvement. Our framework is stylized as a genetic algorithm in which an LLM generates new candidate prompts from a parent prompt and its associated feedback; we use a learned heuristic function that predicts prompt performance to efficiently sample from these candidates. This approach significantly outperforms both human-engineered prompts and several other prompt optimization methods across eight representative multi-step tasks (an average 27.7% and 28.2% improvement to current best methods on GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, respectively). We further show that the score function for tasks can be modified to better align with individual preferences. We believe our work can serve as a benchmark for automatic prompt optimization for LLM-driven multi-step tasks. Datasets and Codes are available at https://github.com/yongchao98/PROMST. Project Page is available at https://yongchao98.github.io/MIT-REALM-PROMST.

------------

`[2402.08756] Learning How To Ask: Cycle-Consistency Refines Prompts in Multimodal Foundation Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08756>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 19:49:17 GMT
    Maurice Diesendruck, Jianzhe Lin, Shima Imani, Gayathri Mahalingam, Mingyang Xu, Jie Zhao

When LLMs perform zero-shot inference, they typically use a prompt with a task specification, and generate a completion. However, there is no work to explore the possibility of the reverse - going from completion to task specification. In this paper, we employ both directions to perform cycle-supervised learning entirely in-context. Our goal is to create a forward map f : X -> Y (e.g. image -> generated caption), coupled with a backward map g : Y -> X (e.g. caption -> generated image) to construct a cycle-consistency "loss" (formulated as an update to the prompt) to enforce g(f(X)) ~= X. The technique, called CyclePrompt, uses cycle-consistency as a free supervisory signal to iteratively craft the prompt. Importantly, CyclePrompt reinforces model performance without expensive fine-tuning, without training data, and without the complexity of external environments (e.g. compilers, APIs). We demonstrate CyclePrompt in two domains: code generation and image captioning.
Our results on the HumanEval coding benchmark put us in first place on the leaderboard among models that do not rely on extra training data or usage of external environments, and third overall. Compared to the GPT4 baseline, we improve accuracy from 80.5% to 87.2%. In the vision-language space, we generate detailed image captions which outperform baseline zero-shot GPT4V captions, when tested against natural (VQAv2) and diagrammatic (FigureQA) visual question-answering benchmarks. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first use of self-supervised learning for prompting.

------------

`[2402.08761] JAMDEC: Unsupervised Authorship Obfuscation using Constrained Decoding over Small Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08761>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 19:54:29 GMT
    Jillian Fisher, Ximing Lu, Jaehun Jung, Liwei Jiang, Zaid Harchaoui, Yejin Choi

The permanence of online content combined with the enhanced authorship identification techniques calls for stronger computational methods to protect the identity and privacy of online authorship when needed, e.g., blind reviews for scientific papers, anonymous online reviews, or anonymous interactions in the mental health forums. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised inference-time approach to authorship obfuscation to address the unique challenges of authorship obfuscation: lack of supervision data for diverse authorship and domains, and the need for a sufficient level of revision beyond simple paraphrasing to obfuscate the authorship, all the while preserving the original content and fluency.
We introduce JAMDEC, a user-controlled, inference-time algorithm for authorship obfuscation that can be in principle applied to any text and authorship. Our approach builds on small language models such as GPT2-XL in order to help avoid disclosing the original content to proprietary LLM's APIs, while also reducing the performance gap between small and large language models via algorithmic enhancement. The key idea behind our approach is to boost the creative power of smaller language models through constrained decoding, while also allowing for user-specified controls and flexibility. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach based on GPT2-XL outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods based on comparably small models, while performing competitively against GPT3.5 175B, a propriety model that is two orders of magnitudes larger.

------------

`[2402.08785] InstructGraph: Boosting Large Language Models via Graph-centric Instruction Tuning and Preference Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08785>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 20:47:17 GMT
    Jianing Wang, Junda Wu, Yupeng Hou, Yao Liu, Ming Gao, Julian McAuley

Do current large language models (LLMs) better solve graph reasoning and generation tasks with parameter updates? In this paper, we propose InstructGraph, a framework that empowers LLMs with the abilities of graph reasoning and generation by instruction tuning and preference alignment.
Specifically, we first propose a structured format verbalizer to unify all graph data into a universal code-like format, which can simply represent the graph without any external graph-specific encoders. Furthermore, a graph instruction tuning stage is introduced to guide LLMs in solving graph reasoning and generation tasks. Finally, we identify potential hallucination problems in graph tasks and sample negative instances for preference alignment, the target of which is to enhance the output's reliability of the model. Extensive experiments across multiple graph-centric tasks exhibit that InstructGraph can achieve the best performance and outperform GPT-4 and LLaMA2 by more than 13\% and 38\%, respectively.

------------

`[2402.08831] eCeLLM: Generalizing Large Language Models for E-commerce from Large-scale, High-quality Instruction Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08831>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 22:26:24 GMT
    Bo Peng, Xinyi Ling, Ziru Chen, Huan Sun, Xia Ning

With tremendous efforts on developing effective e-commerce models, conventional e-commerce models show limited success in generalist e-commerce modeling, and suffer from unsatisfactory performance on new users and new products - a typical out-of-domain generalization challenge. Meanwhile, large language models (LLMs) demonstrate outstanding performance in generalist modeling and out-of-domain generalizability in many fields. Toward fully unleashing their power for e-commerce, in this paper, we construct ECInstruct, the first open-sourced, large-scale, and high-quality benchmark instruction dataset for e-commerce. Leveraging ECInstruct, we develop eCeLLM, a series of e-commerce LLMs, by instruction-tuning general-purpose LLMs. Our comprehensive experiments and evaluation demonstrate that eCeLLM models substantially outperform baseline models, including the most advanced GPT-4, and the state-of-the-art task-specific models in in-domain evaluation. Moreover, eCeLLM exhibits excellent generalizability to out-of-domain settings, including unseen products and unseen instructions, highlighting its superiority as a generalist e-commerce model. Both the ECInstruct dataset and the eCeLLM models show great potential in empowering versatile and effective LLMs for e-commerce. ECInstruct and eCeLLM models are publicly accessible through https://ninglab.github.io/eCeLLM.

------------

`[2402.08846] An Embarrassingly Simple Approach for LLM with Strong ASR Capacity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08846>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 23:25:04 GMT
    Ziyang Ma, Guanrou Yang, Yifan Yang, Zhifu Gao, Jiaming Wang, Zhihao Du, Fan Yu, Qian Chen, Siqi Zheng, Shiliang Zhang, Xie Chen

In this paper, we focus on solving one of the most important tasks in the field of speech processing, i.e., automatic speech recognition (ASR), with speech foundation encoders and large language models (LLM). Recent works have complex designs such as compressing the output temporally for the speech encoder, tackling modal alignment for the projector, and utilizing parameter-efficient fine-tuning for the LLM. We found that delicate designs are not necessary, while an embarrassingly simple composition of off-the-shelf speech encoder, LLM, and the only trainable linear projector is competent for the ASR task. To be more specific, we benchmark and explore various combinations of LLMs and speech encoders, leading to the optimal LLM-based ASR system, which we call SLAM-ASR. The proposed SLAM-ASR provides a clean setup and little task-specific design, where only the linear projector is trained. To the best of our knowledge, SLAM-ASR achieves the best performance on the Librispeech benchmark among LLM-based ASR models and even outperforms the latest LLM-based audio-universal model trained on massive pair data. Finally, we explore the capability emergence of LLM-based ASR in the process of modal alignment. We hope that our study can facilitate the research on extending LLM with cross-modality capacity and shed light on the LLM-based ASR community.

------------

`[2402.08874] Tree-Based Hard Attention with Self-Motivation for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08874>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 00:40:51 GMT
    Chenxi Lin, Jiayu Ren, Guoxiu He, Zhuoren Jiang, Haiyan Yu, Xiaomin Zhu

While large language models (LLMs) excel at understanding and generating plain text, they are not specifically tailored to handle hierarchical text structures. Extracting the task-desired property from their natural language responses typically necessitates additional processing steps. In fact, selectively comprehending the hierarchical structure of large-scale text is pivotal to understanding its substance. Aligning LLMs more closely with the classification or regression values of specific task through prompting also remains challenging. To this end, we propose a novel framework called Tree-Based Hard Attention with Self-Motivation for Large Language Models (TEAROOM). TEAROOM incorporates a tree-based hard attention mechanism for LLMs to process hierarchically structured text inputs. By leveraging prompting, it enables a frozen LLM to selectively focus on relevant leaves in relation to the root, generating a tailored symbolic representation of their relationship.
Moreover, TEAROOM comprises a self-motivation strategy for another LLM equipped with a trainable adapter and a linear layer. The selected symbolic outcomes are integrated into another prompt, along with the predictive value of the task. We iteratively feed output values back into the prompt, enabling the trainable LLM to progressively approximate the golden truth. TEAROOM outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in experimental evaluations across three benchmark datasets, showing its effectiveness in estimating task-specific properties.
Through comprehensive experiments and analysis, we have validated the ability of TEAROOM to gradually approach the underlying golden truth through multiple inferences.

------------

`[2402.08925] MaxMin-RLHF: Towards Equitable Alignment of Large Language Models with Diverse Human Preferences <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08925>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 03:56:27 GMT
    Souradip Chakraborty, Jiahao Qiu, Hui Yuan, Alec Koppel, Furong Huang, Dinesh Manocha, Amrit Singh Bedi, and Mengdi Wang

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) aligns language models to human preferences by employing a singular reward model derived from preference data. However, such an approach overlooks the rich diversity of human preferences inherent in data collected from multiple users. In this work, we first derive an impossibility result of alignment with single reward RLHF, thereby highlighting its insufficiency in representing diverse human preferences. To provide an equitable solution to the problem, we learn a mixture of preference distributions via an expectation-maximization algorithm and propose a MaxMin alignment objective for policy learning inspired by the Egalitarian principle in social choice theory to better represent diverse human preferences. We elucidate the connection of our proposed approach to distributionally robust optimization and general utility RL, thereby highlighting the generality and robustness of our proposed solution. We present comprehensive experimental results on small-scale (GPT-2) and large-scale language models (with Tulu2-7B) and show the efficacy of the proposed approach in the presence of diversity among human preferences. Our algorithm achieves an average improvement of more than 16% in win-rates over conventional RLHF algorithms and improves the win-rate (accuracy) for minority groups by over 33% without compromising the performance of majority groups, showcasing the robustness and fairness of our approach. We remark that our findings in this work are not only limited to language models but also extend to reinforcement learning in general.

------------

`[2402.09008] Multi-Query Focused Disaster Summarization via Instruction-Based Prompting <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09008>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 08:22:58 GMT
    Philipp Seeberger, Korbinian Riedhammer

Automatic summarization of mass-emergency events plays a critical role in disaster management. The second edition of CrisisFACTS aims to advance disaster summarization based on multi-stream fact-finding with a focus on web sources such as Twitter, Reddit, Facebook, and Webnews. Here, participants are asked to develop systems that can extract key facts from several disaster-related events, which ultimately serve as a summary. This paper describes our method to tackle this challenging task. We follow previous work and propose to use a combination of retrieval, reranking, and an embarrassingly simple instruction-following summarization. The two-stage retrieval pipeline relies on BM25 and MonoT5, while the summarizer module is based on the open-source Large Language Model (LLM) LLaMA-13b. For summarization, we explore a Question Answering (QA)-motivated prompting approach and find the evidence useful for extracting query-relevant facts. The automatic metrics and human evaluation show strong results but also highlight the gap between open-source and proprietary systems.

------------

`[2402.09015] Towards better Human-Agent Alignment: Assessing Task Utility in LLM-Powered Applications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09015>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 08:46:15 GMT
    Negar Arabzadeh and Julia Kiseleva and Qingyun Wu and Chi Wang and Ahmed Awadallah and Victor Dibia and Adam Fourney and Charles Clarke

The rapid development in the field of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to a surge in applications that facilitate collaboration among multiple agents to assist humans in their daily tasks. However, a significant gap remains in assessing whether LLM-powered applications genuinely enhance user experience and task execution efficiency. This highlights the pressing need for methods to verify utility of LLM-powered applications, particularly by ensuring alignment between the application's functionality and end-user needs. We introduce AgentEval provides an implementation for the math problems}, a novel framework designed to simplify the utility verification process by automatically proposing a set of criteria tailored to the unique purpose of any given application. This allows for a comprehensive assessment, quantifying the utility of an application against the suggested criteria. We present a comprehensive analysis of the robustness of quantifier's work.

------------

`[2402.09025] SLEB: Streamlining LLMs through Redundancy Verification and Elimination of Transformer Blocks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09025>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 09:01:13 GMT
    Jiwon Song, Kyungseok Oh, Taesu Kim, Hyungjun Kim, Yulhwa Kim, Jae-Joon Kim

Large language models (LLMs) have proven to be highly effective across various natural language processing tasks. However, their large number of parameters poses significant challenges for practical deployment. Pruning, a technique aimed at reducing the size and complexity of LLMs, offers a potential solution by removing redundant components from the network. Despite the promise of pruning, existing methods often struggle to achieve substantial end-to-end LLM inference speedup. In this paper, we introduce SLEB, a novel approach designed to streamline LLMs by eliminating redundant transformer blocks. We choose the transformer block as the fundamental unit for pruning, because LLMs exhibit block-level redundancy with high similarity between the outputs of neighboring blocks. This choice allows us to effectively enhance the processing speed of LLMs. Our experimental results demonstrate that SLEB successfully accelerates LLM inference without compromising the linguistic capabilities of these models, making it a promising technique for optimizing the efficiency of LLMs. The code is available at: https://github.com/leapingjagg-dev/SLEB

------------

`[2402.09136] DolphCoder: Echo-Locating Code Large Language Models with Diverse and Multi-Objective Instruction Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09136>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:34:58 GMT
    Yejie Wang, Keqing He, Guanting Dong, Pei Wang, Weihao Zeng, Muxi Diao, Yutao Mou, Mengdi Zhang, Jingang Wang, Xunliang Cai, Weiran Xu

Code Large Language Models (Code LLMs) have demonstrated outstanding performance in code-related tasks. Several instruction tuning approaches have been proposed to boost the code generation performance of pre-trained Code LLMs. In this paper, we introduce a diverse instruction model (DolphCoder) with self-evaluating for code generation. It learns diverse instruction targets and combines a code evaluation objective to enhance its code generation ability.
Our model achieves superior performance on the HumanEval and MBPP benchmarks, demonstrating new insights for future code instruction tuning work. Our key findings are: (1) Augmenting more diverse responses with distinct reasoning paths increases the code capability of LLMs. (2) Improving one's ability to evaluate the correctness of code solutions also enhances their ability to create it.

------------

`[2402.09193] (Ir)rationality and Cognitive Biases in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09193>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 14:17:21 GMT
    Olivia Macmillan-Scott and Mirco Musolesi

Do large language models (LLMs) display rational reasoning? LLMs have been shown to contain human biases due to the data they have been trained on; whether this is reflected in rational reasoning remains less clear. In this paper, we answer this question by evaluating seven language models using tasks from the cognitive psychology literature. We find that, like humans, LLMs display irrationality in these tasks. However, the way this irrationality is displayed does not reflect that shown by humans. When incorrect answers are given by LLMs to these tasks, they are often incorrect in ways that differ from human-like biases. On top of this, the LLMs reveal an additional layer of irrationality in the significant inconsistency of the responses. Aside from the experimental results, this paper seeks to make a methodological contribution by showing how we can assess and compare different capabilities of these types of models, in this case with respect to rational reasoning.

------------

`[2402.09199] Ten Words Only Still Help: Improving Black-Box AI-Generated Text Detection via Proxy-Guided Efficient Re-Sampling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09199>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 14:32:16 GMT
    Yuhui Shi, Qiang Sheng, Juan Cao, Hao Mi, Beizhe Hu, Danding Wang

With the rapidly increasing application of large language models (LLMs), their abuse has caused many undesirable societal problems such as fake news, academic dishonesty, and information pollution. This makes AI-generated text (AIGT) detection of great importance. Among existing methods, white-box methods are generally superior to black-box methods in terms of performance and generalizability, but they require access to LLMs' internal states and are not applicable to black-box settings. In this paper, we propose to estimate word generation probabilities as pseudo white-box features via multiple re-sampling to help improve AIGT detection under the black-box setting. Specifically, we design POGER, a proxy-guided efficient re-sampling method, which selects a small subset of representative words (e.g., 10 words) for performing multiple re-sampling in black-box AIGT detection. Experiments on datasets containing texts from humans and seven LLMs show that POGER outperforms all baselines in macro F1 under black-box, partial white-box, and out-of-distribution settings and maintains lower re-sampling costs than its existing counterparts.

------------

`[2402.09216] Scaling the Authoring of AutoTutors with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09216>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 14:53:56 GMT
    Sankalan Pal Chowdhury, Vil\'em Zouhar, Mrinmaya Sachan

Large Language Models (LLMs) have found several use cases in education, ranging from automatic question generation to essay evaluation. In this paper, we explore the potential of using Large Language Models (LLMs) to author Intelligent Tutoring Systems. A common pitfall of LLMs is their straying from desired pedagogical strategies such as leaking the answer to the student, and in general, providing no guarantees. We posit that while LLMs with certain guardrails can take the place of subject experts, the overall pedagogical design still needs to be handcrafted for the best learning results. Based on this principle, we create a sample end-to-end tutoring system named MWPTutor, which uses LLMs to fill in the state space of a pre-defined finite state transducer. This approach retains the structure and the pedagogy of traditional tutoring systems that has been developed over the years by learning scientists but brings in additional flexibility of LLM-based approaches. Through a human evaluation study on two datasets based on math word problems, we show that our hybrid approach achieves a better overall tutoring score than an instructed, but otherwise free-form, GPT-4. MWPTutor is completely modular and opens up the scope for the community to improve its performance by improving individual modules or using different teaching strategies that it can follow

------------

`[2402.09259] SyntaxShap: Syntax-aware Explainability Method for Text Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09259>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:45:56 GMT
    Kenza Amara, Rita Sevastjanova, Mennatallah El-Assady

To harness the power of large language models in safety-critical domains we need to ensure the explainability of their predictions. However, despite the significant attention to model interpretability, there remains an unexplored domain in explaining sequence-to-sequence tasks using methods tailored for textual data. This paper introduces SyntaxShap, a local, model-agnostic explainability method for text generation that takes into consideration the syntax in the text data. The presented work extends Shapley values to account for parsing-based syntactic dependencies. Taking a game theoric approach, SyntaxShap only considers coalitions constraint by the dependency tree. We adopt a model-based evaluation to compare SyntaxShap and its weighted form to state-of-the-art explainability methods adapted to text generation tasks, using diverse metrics including faithfulness, complexity, coherency, and semantic alignment of the explanations to the model. We show that our syntax-aware method produces explanations that help build more faithful, coherent, and interpretable explanations for predictions by autoregressive models.

------------

`[2402.09267] Self-Alignment for Factuality: Mitigating Hallucinations in LLMs via Self-Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09267>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:52:42 GMT
    Xiaoying Zhang, Baolin Peng, Ye Tian, Jingyan Zhou, Lifeng Jin, Linfeng Song, Haitao Mi, Helen Meng

Despite showing increasingly human-like abilities, large language models (LLMs) often struggle with factual inaccuracies, i.e. "hallucinations", even when they hold relevant knowledge. To address these hallucinations, current approaches typically necessitate high-quality human factuality annotations. In this work, we explore Self-Alignment for Factuality, where we leverage the self-evaluation capability of an LLM to provide training signals that steer the model towards factuality. Specifically, we incorporate Self-Eval, a self-evaluation component, to prompt an LLM to validate the factuality of its own generated responses solely based on its internal knowledge. Additionally, we design Self-Knowledge Tuning (SK-Tuning) to augment the LLM's self-evaluation ability by improving the model's confidence estimation and calibration. We then utilize these self-annotated responses to fine-tune the model via Direct Preference Optimization algorithm. We show that the proposed self-alignment approach substantially enhances factual accuracy over Llama family models across three key knowledge-intensive tasks on TruthfulQA and BioGEN.

------------

`[2402.09269] Personalized Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09269>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:55:30 GMT
    Stanis{\l}aw Wo\'zniak, Bart{\l}omiej Koptyra, Arkadiusz Janz, Przemys{\l}aw Kazienko, Jan Koco\'n

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly advanced Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks in recent years. However, their universal nature poses limitations in scenarios requiring personalized responses, such as recommendation systems and chatbots. This paper investigates methods to personalize LLMs, comparing fine-tuning and zero-shot reasoning approaches on subjective tasks. Results demonstrate that personalized fine-tuning improves model reasoning compared to non-personalized models. Experiments on datasets for emotion recognition and hate speech detection show consistent performance gains with personalized methods across different LLM architectures. These findings underscore the importance of personalization for enhancing LLM capabilities in subjective text perception tasks.

------------

`[2402.09282] Leveraging Large Language Models for Enhanced NLP Task Performance through Knowledge Distillation and Optimized Training Strategies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09282>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:10:45 GMT
    Yining Huang

The integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 into traditional Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks has opened new avenues for enhancing model performance while reducing the reliance on extensive human annotations.
This paper presents a novel approach that leverages the Chain of Thought (CoT) prompting technique to distill knowledge from GPT-4, subsequently applying it to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of a smaller model, BERT, on Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks. Our method involves a two-phase training process: initially employing GPT-4 annotated data for pre-training and then refining the model with a combination of distilled and original human-annotated data. The results demonstrate that our mixed-training strategy significantly outperforms models trained solely on human annotations, achieving superior F1-scores and showcasing a cost-effective solution for resource-limited or closed-network settings. The study also discusses the challenges encountered, such as LLM output variability and the tendency towards hallucinations, proposing future work directions to enhance prompt design and annotation selection. Our findings indicate a promising synergy between LLM insights and traditional NLP techniques, paving the way for more accessible and robust NLP applications.

------------

`[2402.09283] Attacks, Defenses and Evaluations for LLM Conversation Safety: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09283>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:14:03 GMT
    Zhichen Dong, Zhanhui Zhou, Chao Yang, Jing Shao, Yu Qiao

Large Language Models (LLMs) are now commonplace in conversation applications. However, their risks of misuse for generating harmful responses have raised serious societal concerns and spurred recent research on LLM conversation safety. Therefore, in this survey, we provide a comprehensive overview of recent studies, covering three critical aspects of LLM conversation safety: attacks, defenses, and evaluations. Our goal is to provide a structured summary that enhances understanding of LLM conversation safety and encourages further investigation into this important subject. For easy reference, we have categorized all the studies mentioned in this survey according to our taxonomy, available at: https://github.com/niconi19/LLM-conversation-safety.

------------

`[2402.09320] ICDPO: Effectively Borrowing Alignment Capability of Others via In-context Direct Preference Optimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09320>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 17:14:34 GMT
    Feifan Song, Yuxuan Fan, Xin Zhang, Peiyi Wang, Houfeng Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) rely on Human Preference Alignment (HPA) to ensure the generation of safe content. Due to the heavy cost associated with fine-tuning, fine-tuning-free methods have emerged, typically modifying LLM decoding with external auxiliary methods. However, these methods do not essentially enhance the LLM itself. In this paper, we rethink the derivation procedures of DPO, based on which we conversely build an instant scorer using the states of the LLM before and after In-context Learning (ICL). Accordingly, we propose a novel approach called In-Context Direct Preference Optimization (ICDPO). It enables LLMs to borrow the HPA capabilities from superior LLMs with ICL, generating well-aligned responses as estimated by the aforementioned instant scorer, thereby enhancing the final performance. ICDPO can be further enhanced with a two-stage retriever and an upgraded scorer, both offering benefits. Extensive experiments show its effectiveness, particularly in outperforming two fine-tuning-free baselines, and it exhibits competitiveness with SFT + LoRA. We also conduct detailed analyses to offer comprehensive insights into ICDPO.

------------

`[2402.09363] Copyright Traps for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09363>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:09:53 GMT
    Matthieu Meeus, Igor Shilov, Manuel Faysse and Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye

Questions of fair use of copyright-protected content to train Large Language Models (LLMs) are being very actively debated. Document-level inference has been proposed as a new task: inferring from black-box access to the trained model whether a piece of content has been seen during training. SOTA methods however rely on naturally occurring memorization of (part of) the content.
While very effective against models that memorize a lot, we hypothesize--and later confirm--that they will not work against models that do not naturally memorize, e.g. medium-size 1B models. We here propose to use copyright traps, the inclusion of fictitious entries in original content, to detect the use of copyrighted materials in LLMs with a focus on models where memorization does not naturally occur. We carefully design an experimental setup, randomly inserting traps into original content (books) and train a 1.3B LLM. We first validate that the use of content in our target model would be undetectable using existing methods. We then show, contrary to intuition, that even medium-length trap sentences repeated a significant number of times (100) are not detectable using existing methods. However, we show that longer sequences repeated a large number of times can be reliably detected (AUC=0.75) and used as copyright traps. We further improve these results by studying how the number of times a sequence is seen improves detectability, how sequences with higher perplexity tend to be memorized more, and how taking context into account further improves detectability.

------------

`[2402.09369] Massively Multi-Cultural Knowledge Acquisition & LM Benchmarking <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09369>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:16:54 GMT
    Yi Fung, Ruining Zhao, Jae Doo, Chenkai Sun, Heng Ji

Pretrained large language models have revolutionized many applications but still face challenges related to cultural bias and a lack of cultural commonsense knowledge crucial for guiding cross-culture communication and interactions. Recognizing the shortcomings of existing methods in capturing the diverse and rich cultures across the world, this paper introduces a novel approach for massively multicultural knowledge acquisition. Specifically, our method strategically navigates from densely informative Wikipedia documents on cultural topics to an extensive network of linked pages. Leveraging this valuable source of data collection, we construct the CultureAtlas dataset, which covers a wide range of sub-country level geographical regions and ethnolinguistic groups, with data cleaning and preprocessing to ensure textual assertion sentence self-containment, as well as fine-grained cultural profile information extraction. Our dataset not only facilitates the evaluation of language model performance in culturally diverse contexts but also serves as a foundational tool for the development of culturally sensitive and aware language models. Our work marks an important step towards deeper understanding and bridging the gaps of cultural disparities in AI, to promote a more inclusive and balanced representation of global cultures in the digital domain.

------------

`[2402.09404] AQA-Bench: An Interactive Benchmark for Evaluating LLMs' Sequential Reasoning Ability <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09404>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:59:33 GMT
    Siwei Yang, Bingchen Zhao, Cihang Xie

This paper introduces AQA-Bench, a novel benchmark to assess the sequential reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in algorithmic contexts, such as depth-first search (DFS). The key feature of our evaluation benchmark lies in its interactive evaluation protocol -- for example, in DFS, the availability of each node's connected edge is contingent upon the model's traversal to that node, thereby necessitating the LLM's ability to effectively remember visited nodes and strategize subsequent moves. We comprehensively build AQA-Bench with three different algorithms, namely binary search, depth-first search, and breadth-first search, and to evaluate the sequential reasoning ability of 12 different LLMs. Our investigations reveal several interesting findings: (1) Closed-source models like GPT-4 and Gemini generally show strong sequential reasoning ability, significantly outperforming open-source LLMs. (2) Naively providing interactive examples may inadvertently hurt few-shot performance. (3) A very limited number of predecessor steps following the optimal policy can substantially boost small models' performance.
(4) The scaling correlation between performance and model size is not always significant, sometimes even showcasing an inverse trend. We hope our study can catalyze future work on advancing the understanding and enhancement of LLMs' capabilities in sequential reasoning. The code is available at https://github.com/UCSC-VLAA/AQA-Bench.

------------

`[2402.08787] Rethinking Machine Unlearning for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08787>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 20:51:58 GMT
    Sijia Liu, Yuanshun Yao, Jinghan Jia, Stephen Casper, Nathalie Baracaldo, Peter Hase, Xiaojun Xu, Yuguang Yao, Hang Li, Kush R. Varshney, Mohit Bansal, Sanmi Koyejo, Yang Liu

We explore machine unlearning (MU) in the domain of large language models (LLMs), referred to as LLM unlearning. This initiative aims to eliminate undesirable data influence (e.g., sensitive or illegal information) and the associated model capabilities, while maintaining the integrity of essential knowledge generation and not affecting causally unrelated information. We envision LLM unlearning becoming a pivotal element in the life-cycle management of LLMs, potentially standing as an essential foundation for developing generative AI that is not only safe, secure, and trustworthy, but also resource-efficient without the need of full retraining. We navigate the unlearning landscape in LLMs from conceptual formulation, methodologies, metrics, and applications. In particular, we highlight the often-overlooked aspects of existing LLM unlearning research, e.g., unlearning scope, data-model interaction, and multifaceted efficacy assessment. We also draw connections between LLM unlearning and related areas such as model editing, influence functions, model explanation, adversarial training, and reinforcement learning.
Furthermore, we outline an effective assessment framework for LLM unlearning and explore its applications in copyright and privacy safeguards and sociotechnical harm reduction.

------------

`[2402.09063] Soft Prompt Threats: Attacking Safety Alignment and Unlearning in Open-Source LLMs through the Embedding Space <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09063>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:20:03 GMT
    Leo Schwinn and David Dobre and Sophie Xhonneux and Gauthier Gidel and Stephan Gunnemann

Current research in adversarial robustness of LLMs focuses on discrete input manipulations in the natural language space, which can be directly transferred to closed-source models. However, this approach neglects the steady progression of open-source models. As open-source models advance in capability, ensuring their safety also becomes increasingly imperative. Yet, attacks tailored to open-source LLMs that exploit full model access remain largely unexplored. We address this research gap and propose the embedding space attack, which directly attacks the continuous embedding representation of input tokens. We find that embedding space attacks circumvent model alignments and trigger harmful behaviors more efficiently than discrete attacks or model fine-tuning.
Furthermore, we present a novel threat model in the context of unlearning and show that embedding space attacks can extract supposedly deleted information from unlearned LLMs across multiple datasets and models. Our findings highlight embedding space attacks as an important threat model in open-source LLMs.
Trigger Warning: the appendix contains LLM-generated text with violence and harassment.

------------

`[2402.09154] Attacking Large Language Models with Projected Gradient Descent <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09154>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:13:26 GMT
    Simon Geisler, Tom Wollschl\"ager, M. H. I. Abdalla, Johannes Gasteiger, Stephan G\"unnemann

Current LLM alignment methods are readily broken through specifically crafted adversarial prompts. While crafting adversarial prompts using discrete optimization is highly effective, such attacks typically use more than 100,000 LLM calls. This high computational cost makes them unsuitable for, e.g., quantitative analyses and adversarial training. To remedy this, we revisit Projected Gradient Descent (PGD) on the continuously relaxed input prompt.
Although previous attempts with ordinary gradient-based attacks largely failed, we show that carefully controlling the error introduced by the continuous relaxation tremendously boosts their efficacy. Our PGD for LLMs is up to one order of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art discrete optimization to achieve the same devastating attack results.

------------

`[2402.09177] Leveraging the Context through Multi-Round Interactions for Jailbreaking Attacks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09177>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:45:19 GMT
    Yixin Cheng, Markos Georgopoulos, Volkan Cevher, Grigorios G. Chrysos

Large Language Models (LLMs) are susceptible to Jailbreaking attacks, which aim to extract harmful information by subtly modifying the attack query. As defense mechanisms evolve, directly obtaining harmful information becomes increasingly challenging for Jailbreaking attacks. In this work, inspired by human practices of indirect context to elicit harmful information, we focus on a new attack form called Contextual Interaction Attack. The idea relies on the autoregressive nature of the generation process in LLMs. We contend that the prior context--the information preceding the attack query--plays a pivotal role in enabling potent Jailbreaking attacks. Specifically, we propose an approach that leverages preliminary question-answer pairs to interact with the LLM. By doing so, we guide the responses of the model toward revealing the 'desired' harmful information. We conduct experiments on four different LLMs and demonstrate the efficacy of this attack, which is black-box and can also transfer across LLMs. We believe this can lead to further developments and understanding of the context vector in LLMs.

------------

`[2402.09236] Learning Interpretable Concepts: Unifying Causal Representation Learning and Foundation Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09236>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:23:59 GMT
    Goutham Rajendran, Simon Buchholz, Bryon Aragam, Bernhard Sch\"olkopf, Pradeep Ravikumar

To build intelligent machine learning systems, there are two broad approaches. One approach is to build inherently interpretable models, as endeavored by the growing field of causal representation learning. The other approach is to build highly-performant foundation models and then invest efforts into understanding how they work. In this work, we relate these two approaches and study how to learn human-interpretable concepts from data.
Weaving together ideas from both fields, we formally define a notion of concepts and show that they can be provably recovered from diverse data.
Experiments on synthetic data and large language models show the utility of our unified approach.

------------

`[2402.09360] HiRE: High Recall Approximate Top-$k$ Estimation for Efficient LLM Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09360>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:04:36 GMT
    Yashas Samaga B L and Varun Yerram and Chong You and Srinadh Bhojanapalli and Sanjiv Kumar and Prateek Jain and Praneeth Netrapalli

Autoregressive decoding with generative Large Language Models (LLMs) on accelerators (GPUs/TPUs) is often memory-bound where most of the time is spent on transferring model parameters from high bandwidth memory (HBM) to cache. On the other hand, recent works show that LLMs can maintain quality with significant sparsity/redundancy in the feedforward (FFN) layers by appropriately training the model to operate on a top-$k$ fraction of rows/columns (where $k \approx 0.05$), there by suggesting a way to reduce the transfer of model parameters, and hence latency. However, exploiting this sparsity for improving latency is hindered by the fact that identifying top rows/columns is data-dependent and is usually performed using full matrix operations, severely limiting potential gains. To address these issues, we introduce HiRE (High Recall Approximate Top-k Estimation). HiRE comprises of two novel components: (i) a compression scheme to cheaply predict top-$k$ rows/columns with high recall, followed by full computation restricted to the predicted subset, and (ii) DA-TOP-$k$: an efficient multi-device approximate top-$k$ operator. We demonstrate that on a one billion parameter model, HiRE applied to both the softmax as well as feedforward layers, achieves almost matching pretraining and downstream accuracy, and speeds up inference latency by $1.47\times$ on a single TPUv5e device.

------------

`[2402.09398] Get More with LESS: Synthesizing Recurrence with KV Cache Compression for Efficient LLM Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09398>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:54:56 GMT
    Harry Dong, Xinyu Yang, Zhenyu Zhang, Zhangyang Wang, Yuejie Chi, Beidi Chen

Many computational factors limit broader deployment of large language models.
In this paper, we focus on a memory bottleneck imposed by the key-value (KV) cache, a computational shortcut that requires storing previous KV pairs during decoding. While existing KV cache methods approach this problem by pruning or evicting large swaths of relatively less important KV pairs to dramatically reduce the memory footprint of the cache, they can have limited success in tasks that require recollecting a majority of previous tokens. To alleviate this issue, we propose LESS, a simple integration of a (nearly free) constant sized cache with eviction-based cache methods, such that all tokens can be queried at later decoding steps. Its ability to retain information throughout time shows merit on a variety of tasks where we demonstrate LESS can help reduce the performance gap from caching everything, sometimes even matching it, all while being efficient.

------------

`[2402.09401] Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback with Active Queries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09401>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:58:40 GMT
    Kaixuan Ji and Jiafan He and Quanquan Gu

Aligning large language models (LLM) with human preference plays a key role in building modern generative models and can be achieved by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). Despite their superior performance, current RLHF approaches often require a large amount of human-labelled preference data, which is expensive to collect. In this paper, inspired by the success of active learning, we address this problem by proposing query-efficient RLHF methods. We first formalize the alignment problem as a contextual dueling bandit problem and design an active-query-based proximal policy optimization (APPO) algorithm with an $\tilde{O}(d^2/\Delta)$ regret bound and an $\tilde{O}(d^2/\Delta^2)$ query complexity, where $d$ is the dimension of feature space and $\Delta$ is the sub-optimality gap over all the contexts. We then propose ADPO, a practical version of our algorithm based on direct preference optimization (DPO) and apply it to fine-tuning LLMs. Our experiments show that ADPO, while only making about half of queries for human preference, matches the performance of the state-of-the-art DPO method.

------------

`[2402.08690] If Turing played piano with an artificial partner <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08690>`__

::

    Fri, 9 Feb 2024 18:43:48 GMT
    Dobromir Dotov, Dante Camarena, Zack Harris, Joanna Spyra, Pietro Gagliano, Laurel Trainor

Music is an inherently social activity that allows people to share experiences and feel connected with one another. There has been little progress in designing artificial partners exhibiting a similar social experience as playing with another person. Neural network architectures that implement generative models, such as large language models, are suited for producing musical scores. Playing music socially, however, involves more than playing a score; it must complement the other musicians' ideas and keep time correctly.
We addressed the question of whether a convincing social experience is made possible by a generative model trained to produce musical scores, not necessarily optimized for synchronization and continuation. The network, a variational autoencoder trained on a large corpus of digital scores, was adapted for a timed call-and-response task with a human partner. Participants played piano with a human or artificial partner-in various configurations-and rated the performance quality and first-person experience of self-other integration. Overall, the artificial partners held promise but were rated lower than human partners. The artificial partner with simplest design and highest similarity parameter was not rated differently from the human partners on some measures, suggesting that interactive rather than generative sophistication is important in enabling social AI.

------------

`[2402.08801] ChatGPT vs LLaMA: Impact, Reliability, and Challenges in Stack Overflow Discussions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08801>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 21:15:33 GMT
    Leuson Da Silva and Jordan Samhi and Foutse Khomh

Since its release in November 2022, ChatGPT has shaken up Stack Overflow, the premier platform for developers' queries on programming and software development. Demonstrating an ability to generate instant, human-like responses to technical questions, ChatGPT has ignited debates within the developer community about the evolving role of human-driven platforms in the age of generative AI. Two months after ChatGPT's release, Meta released its answer with its own Large Language Model (LLM) called LLaMA: the race was on. We conducted an empirical study analyzing questions from Stack Overflow and using these LLMs to address them. This way, we aim to (ii) measure user engagement evolution with Stack Overflow over time; (ii) quantify the reliability of LLMs' answers and their potential to replace Stack Overflow in the long term; (iii) identify and understand why LLMs fails; and (iv) compare LLMs together. Our empirical results are unequivocal: ChatGPT and LLaMA challenge human expertise, yet do not outperform it for some domains, while a significant decline in user posting activity has been observed. Furthermore, we also discuss the impact of our findings regarding the usage and development of new LLMs.

------------

`[2402.08855] GhostWriter: Augmenting Collaborative Human-AI Writing Experiences Through Personalization and Agency <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08855>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 23:48:59 GMT
    Catherine Yeh, Gonzalo Ramos, Rachel Ng, Andy Huntington, Richard Banks

Large language models (LLMs) are becoming more prevalent and have found a ubiquitous use in providing different forms of writing assistance. However, LLM-powered writing systems can frustrate users due to their limited personalization and control, which can be exacerbated when users lack experience with prompt engineering. We see design as one way to address these challenges and introduce GhostWriter, an AI-enhanced writing design probe where users can exercise enhanced agency and personalization. GhostWriter leverages LLMs to learn the user's intended writing style implicitly as they write, while allowing explicit teaching moments through manual style edits and annotations.
We study 18 participants who use GhostWriter on two different writing tasks, observing that it helps users craft personalized text generations and empowers them by providing multiple ways to control the system's writing style. From this study, we present insights regarding people's relationship with AI-assisted writing and offer design recommendations for future work.

------------

`[2402.08983] SafeDecoding: Defending against Jailbreak Attacks via Safety-Aware Decoding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08983>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 06:54:31 GMT
    Zhangchen Xu, Fengqing Jiang, Luyao Niu, Jinyuan Jia, Bill Yuchen Lin, Radha Poovendran

As large language models (LLMs) become increasingly integrated into real-world applications such as code generation and chatbot assistance, extensive efforts have been made to align LLM behavior with human values, including safety. Jailbreak attacks, aiming to provoke unintended and unsafe behaviors from LLMs, remain a significant/leading LLM safety threat. In this paper, we aim to defend LLMs against jailbreak attacks by introducing SafeDecoding, a safety-aware decoding strategy for LLMs to generate helpful and harmless responses to user queries. Our insight in developing SafeDecoding is based on the observation that, even though probabilities of tokens representing harmful contents outweigh those representing harmless responses, safety disclaimers still appear among the top tokens after sorting tokens by probability in descending order. This allows us to mitigate jailbreak attacks by identifying safety disclaimers and amplifying their token probabilities, while simultaneously attenuating the probabilities of token sequences that are aligned with the objectives of jailbreak attacks. We perform extensive experiments on five LLMs using six state-of-the-art jailbreak attacks and four benchmark datasets. Our results show that SafeDecoding significantly reduces the attack success rate and harmfulness of jailbreak attacks without compromising the helpfulness of responses to benign user queries. SafeDecoding outperforms six defense methods.

------------

`[2402.08995] AgentLens: Visual Analysis for Agent Behaviors in LLM-based Autonomous Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08995>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 07:48:16 GMT
    Jiaying Lu and Bo Pan and Jieyi Chen and Yingchaojie Feng and Jingyuan Hu and Yuchen Peng and Wei Chen

Recently, Large Language Model based Autonomous system(LLMAS) has gained great popularity for its potential to simulate complicated behaviors of human societies. One of its main challenges is to present and analyze the dynamic events evolution of LLMAS. In this work, we present a visualization approach to explore detailed statuses and agents' behavior within LLMAS. We propose a general pipeline that establishes a behavior structure from raw LLMAS execution events, leverages a behavior summarization algorithm to construct a hierarchical summary of the entire structure in terms of time sequence, and a cause trace method to mine the causal relationship between agent behaviors. We then develop AgentLens, a visual analysis system that leverages a hierarchical temporal visualization for illustrating the evolution of LLMAS, and supports users to interactively investigate details and causes of agents' behaviors. Two usage scenarios and a user study demonstrate the effectiveness and usability of our AgentLens.

------------

`[2402.09091] Play Guessing Game with LLM: Indirect Jailbreak Attack with Implicit Clues <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09091>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 11:11:51 GMT
    Zhiyuan Chang, Mingyang Li, Yi Liu, Junjie Wang, Qing Wang, Yang Liu

With the development of LLMs, the security threats of LLMs are getting more and more attention. Numerous jailbreak attacks have been proposed to assess the security defense of LLMs. Current jailbreak attacks primarily utilize scenario camouflage techniques. However their explicitly mention of malicious intent will be easily recognized and defended by LLMs. In this paper, we propose an indirect jailbreak attack approach, Puzzler, which can bypass the LLM's defense strategy and obtain malicious response by implicitly providing LLMs with some clues about the original malicious query. In addition, inspired by the wisdom of ''When unable to attack, defend'' from Sun Tzu's Art of War, we adopt a defensive stance to gather clues about the original malicious query through LLMs. Extensive experimental results show that Puzzler achieves a query success rate of 96.6% on closed-source LLMs, which is 57.9%-82.7% higher than baselines. Furthermore, when tested against the state-of-the-art jailbreak detection approaches, Puzzler proves to be more effective at evading detection compared to baselines.

------------

`[2402.08699] Unsupervised Evaluation of Code LLMs with Round-Trip Correctness <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08699>`__

::

    Tue, 13 Feb 2024 11:08:08 GMT
    Miltiadis Allamanis, Sheena Panthaplackel, Pengcheng Yin

To evaluate code large language models (LLMs), research has relied on a few small manually curated benchmarks, such as HumanEval and MBPP, which represent a narrow part of the real-world software domains. In this work, we introduce round-trip correctness (RTC) as an alternative evaluation method. RTC allows Code LLM evaluation on a broader spectrum of real-world software domains without the need for costly human curation. RTC rests on the idea that we can ask a model to make a prediction (e.g., describe some code using natural language), feed that prediction back (e.g., synthesize code from the predicted description), and check if this round-trip leads to code that is semantically equivalent to the original input. We show how to employ RTC to evaluate code synthesis and editing. We find that RTC strongly correlates with model performance on existing narrow-domain code synthesis benchmarks while allowing us to expand to a much broader set of domains and tasks which was not previously possible without costly human annotations.

------------

`[2402.09179] Rapid Adoption, Hidden Risks: The Dual Impact of Large Language Model Customization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09179>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:47:35 GMT
    Rui Zhang, Hongwei Li, Rui Wen, Wenbo Jiang, Yuan Zhang, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, Yang Zhang

The increasing demand for customized Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to the development of solutions like GPTs. These solutions facilitate tailored LLM creation via natural language prompts without coding. However, the trustworthiness of third-party custom versions of LLMs remains an essential concern. In this paper, we propose the first instruction backdoor attacks against applications integrated with untrusted customized LLMs (e.g., GPTs).
Specifically, these attacks embed the backdoor into the custom version of LLMs by designing prompts with backdoor instructions, outputting the attacker's desired result when inputs contain the pre-defined triggers. Our attack includes 3 levels of attacks: word-level, syntax-level, and semantic-level, which adopt different types of triggers with progressive stealthiness. We stress that our attacks do not require fine-tuning or any modification to the backend LLMs, adhering strictly to GPTs development guidelines. We conduct extensive experiments on 4 prominent LLMs and 5 benchmark text classification datasets. The results show that our instruction backdoor attacks achieve the desired attack performance without compromising utility. Additionally, we propose an instruction-ignoring defense mechanism and demonstrate its partial effectiveness in mitigating such attacks. Our findings highlight the vulnerability and the potential risks of LLM customization such as GPTs.

------------

`[2402.09299] Trained Without My Consent: Detecting Code Inclusion In Language Models Trained on Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09299>`__

::

    Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:41:35 GMT
    Vahid Majdinasab, Amin Nikanjam, Foutse Khomh

Code auditing ensures that the developed code adheres to standards, regulations, and copyright protection by verifying that it does not contain code from protected sources. The recent advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) as coding assistants in the software development process poses new challenges for code auditing. The dataset for training these models is mainly collected from publicly available sources. This raises the issue of intellectual property infringement as developers' codes are already included in the dataset.
Therefore, auditing code developed using LLMs is challenging, as it is difficult to reliably assert if an LLM used during development has been trained on specific copyrighted codes, given that we do not have access to the training datasets of these models. Given the non-disclosure of the training datasets, traditional approaches such as code clone detection are insufficient for asserting copyright infringement. To address this challenge, we propose a new approach, TraWiC; a model-agnostic and interpretable method based on membership inference for detecting code inclusion in an LLM's training dataset. We extract syntactic and semantic identifiers unique to each program to train a classifier for detecting code inclusion. In our experiments, we observe that TraWiC is capable of detecting 83.87% of codes that were used to train an LLM. In comparison, the prevalent clone detection tool NiCad is only capable of detecting 47.64%. In addition to its remarkable performance, TraWiC has low resource overhead in contrast to pair-wise clone detection that is conducted during the auditing process of tools like CodeWhisperer reference tracker, across thousands of code snippets.

------------

`[2401.06072] Chain of History: Learning and Forecasting with LLMs for Temporal Knowledge Graph Completion <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06072>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:49:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Ruilin Luo [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 17:42:47 UTC (267 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 15:49:21 UTC (270 KB)
    Ruilin Luo, Tianle Gu, Haoling Li, Junzhe Li, Zicheng Lin, Jiayi Li, Yujiu Yang

Temporal Knowledge Graph Completion (TKGC) is a complex task involving the prediction of missing event links at future timestamps by leveraging established temporal structural knowledge. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive perspective on harnessing the advantages of Large Language Models (LLMs) for reasoning in temporal knowledge graphs, presenting an easily transferable pipeline. In terms of graph modality, we underscore the LLMs' prowess in discerning the structural information of pivotal nodes within the historical chain. As for the generation mode of the LLMs utilized for inference, we conduct an exhaustive exploration into the variances induced by a range of inherent factors in LLMs, with particular attention to the challenges in comprehending reverse logic. We adopt a parameter-efficient fine-tuning strategy to harmonize the LLMs with the task requirements, facilitating the learning of the key knowledge highlighted earlier. Comprehensive experiments are undertaken on several widely recognized datasets, revealing that our framework exceeds or parallels existing methods across numerous popular metrics. Additionally, we execute a substantial range of ablation experiments and draw comparisons with several advanced commercial LLMs, to investigate the crucial factors influencing LLMs' performance in structured temporal knowledge inference tasks.

------------

`[2402.06044] OpenToM: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Theory-of-Mind Reasoning Capabilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06044>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:23:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Hainiu Xu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 20:35:06 UTC (4,577 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:23:51 UTC (4,559 KB)
    Hainiu Xu, Runcong Zhao, Lixing Zhu, Jinhua Du, Yulan He

Neural Theory-of-Mind (N-ToM), machine's ability to understand and keep track of the mental states of others, is pivotal in developing socially intelligent agents. However, prevalent N-ToM benchmarks have several shortcomings, including the presence of ambiguous and artificial narratives, absence of personality traits and preferences, a lack of questions addressing characters' psychological mental states, and limited diversity in the questions posed. In response to these issues, we construct OpenToM, a new benchmark for assessing N-ToM with (1) longer and clearer narrative stories, (2) characters with explicit personality traits, (3) actions that are triggered by character intentions, and (4) questions designed to challenge LLMs' capabilities of modeling characters' mental states of both the physical and psychological world. Using OpenToM, we reveal that state-of-the-art LLMs thrive at modeling certain aspects of mental states in the physical world but fall short when tracking characters' mental states in the psychological world.

------------

`[2402.07477] Food Recommendation as Language Processing (F-RLP): A Personalized and Contextual Paradigm <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07477>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:11:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Ali Rostami [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 08:32:29 UTC (2,516 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:11:44 UTC (2,516 KB)
    Ali Rostami, Ramesh Jain, Amir M. Rahmani

State-of-the-art rule-based and classification-based food recommendation systems face significant challenges in becoming practical and useful. This difficulty arises primarily because most machine learning models struggle with problems characterized by an almost infinite number of classes and a limited number of samples within an unbalanced dataset. Conversely, the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) as recommendation engines offers a promising avenue. However, a general-purpose Recommendation as Language Processing (RLP) approach lacks the critical components necessary for effective food recommendations. To address this gap, we introduce Food Recommendation as Language Processing (F-RLP), a novel framework that offers a food-specific, tailored infrastructure. F-RLP leverages the capabilities of LLMs to maximize their potential, thereby paving the way for more accurate, personalized food recommendations.

------------

`[2304.08460] LongForm: Effective Instruction Tuning with Reverse Instructions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.08460>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:00:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Abdullatif Kksal [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 17 Apr 2023 17:36:35 UTC (690 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:00:33 UTC (690 KB)
    Abdullatif K\"oksal, Timo Schick, Anna Korhonen, Hinrich Sch\"utze

Instruction tuning enables language models to more effectively generalize and better follow user intent. However, obtaining instruction data is costly and challenging. Prior work employs methods such as expensive human annotation, crowd-sourced datasets with alignment issues, and generating noisy examples via LLMs. We introduce the LongForm-C dataset, which is created by reverse instructions. We generate instructions via LLMs for human-written corpus examples using reverse instructions. First we select a diverse set of human-written documents from corpora such as C4 and Wikipedia; then we generate instructions for these documents via LLMs. This approach provides a cheaper and cleaner instruction-tuning dataset with natural output and one suitable for long text generation. Our models outperform 10x larger language models without instruction tuning on tasks such as story/recipe generation and long-form question answering. Moreover, LongForm models outperform prior instruction-tuned models such as FLAN-T5 and Alpaca by a large margin, and improve language understanding capabilities further. Finally, our models can effectively follow and answer multilingual instructions; we demonstrate this for news generation. We publicly release our data and models: this https URL.

------------

`[2306.12951] Public Attitudes Toward ChatGPT on Twitter: Sentiments, Topics, and Occupations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.12951>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 13 Feb 2024 20:53:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Ratanond Koonchanok [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 22 Jun 2023 15:10:18 UTC (1,133 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 20:53:00 UTC (1,144 KB)
    Ratanond Koonchanok, Yanling Pan, Hyeju Jang

ChatGPT sets a new record with the fastest-growing user base, as a chatbot powered by a large language model (LLM). While it demonstrates state-of-the-art capabilities in a variety of language-generation tasks, it also raises widespread public concerns regarding its societal impact. In this paper, we investigated public attitudes towards ChatGPT by applying natural language processing techniques such as sentiment analysis and topic modeling to Twitter data from December 5, 2022 to June 10, 2023. Our sentiment analysis result indicates that the overall sentiment was largely neutral to positive, and negative sentiments were decreasing over time. Our topic model reveals that the most popular topics discussed were Education, Bard, Search Engines, OpenAI, Marketing, and Cybersecurity, but the ranking varies by month. We also analyzed the occupations of Twitter users and found that those with occupations in arts and entertainment tweeted aboutChatGPT most frequently. Additionally, people tended to tweet about topics relevant to their occupation. For instance, Cybersecurity is the most discussed topic among those with occupations related to computer and math, and Education is the most discussed topic among those in academic and research. Overall, our exploratory study provides insights into the public perception of ChatGPT, which could be valuable to both the general public and developers of this technology.

------------

`[2310.15164] LINC: A Neurosymbolic Approach for Logical Reasoning by Combining Language Models with First-Order Logic Provers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15164>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:56:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Benjamin Lipkin [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 23 Oct 2023 17:58:40 UTC (344 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:56:03 UTC (344 KB)
    Theo X. Olausson and Alex Gu and Benjamin Lipkin and Cedegao E. Zhang and Armando Solar-Lezama and Joshua B. Tenenbaum and Roger Levy

Logical reasoning, i.e., deductively inferring the truth value of a conclusion from a set of premises, is an important task for artificial intelligence with wide potential impacts on science, mathematics, and society. While many prompting-based strategies have been proposed to enable Large Language Models (LLMs) to do such reasoning more effectively, they still appear unsatisfactory, often failing in subtle and unpredictable ways. In this work, we investigate the validity of instead reformulating such tasks as modular neurosymbolic programming, which we call LINC: Logical Inference via Neurosymbolic Computation. In LINC, the LLM acts as a semantic parser, translating premises and conclusions from natural language to expressions in first-order logic. These expressions are then offloaded to an external theorem prover, which symbolically performs deductive inference. Leveraging this approach, we observe significant performance gains on FOLIO and a balanced subset of ProofWriter for three different models in nearly all experimental conditions we evaluate. On ProofWriter, augmenting the comparatively small open-source StarCoder+ (15.5B parameters) with LINC even outperforms GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 with Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting by an absolute 38% and 10%, respectively. When used with GPT-4, LINC scores 26% higher than CoT on ProofWriter while performing comparatively on FOLIO. Further analysis reveals that although both methods on average succeed roughly equally often on this dataset, they exhibit distinct and complementary failure modes. We thus provide promising evidence for how logical reasoning over natural language can be tackled through jointly leveraging LLMs alongside symbolic provers. All corresponding code is publicly available at this https URL

------------

`[2311.17438] CLOMO: Counterfactual Logical Modification with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17438>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 05:53:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Yinya Huang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 29 Nov 2023 08:29:54 UTC (4,139 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 30 Nov 2023 04:23:58 UTC (4,138 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 05:53:40 UTC (6,999 KB)
    Yinya Huang, Ruixin Hong, Hongming Zhang, Wei Shao, Zhicheng Yang, Dong Yu, Changshui Zhang, Xiaodan Liang, Linqi Song

In this study, we delve into the realm of counterfactual reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs). Our primary objective is to cultivate the counterfactual thought processes within LLMs and rigorously assess these processes for their validity. Specifically, we introduce a novel task, Counterfactual Logical Modification (CLOMO), and a high-quality human-annotated benchmark. In this task, LLMs must adeptly alter a given argumentative text to uphold a predetermined logical relationship. To effectively evaluate a generation model's counterfactual capabilities, we propose an innovative evaluation metric, the LogicAware Counterfactual Score to directly evaluate the natural language output of LLMs instead of modeling the task as a multiple-choice problem. Analysis shows that the proposed automatic metric aligns well with human preference. Our experimental results show that while LLMs demonstrate a notable capacity for logical counterfactual thinking, there remains a discernible gap between their current abilities and human performance.

------------

`[2312.10323] Continuous Prompt Generation from Linear Combination of Discrete Prompt Embeddings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10323>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:57:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Pascal Passigan [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 16 Dec 2023 05:02:06 UTC (598 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:57:20 UTC (597 KB)
    Pascal Passigan, Kidus Yohannes, Joshua Pereira

The wayward quality of continuous prompts stresses the importance of their interpretability as unexpected and unpredictable behaviors appear following training, especially in the context of large language models automating people-sensitive tasks such as resume screening. In this paper we present a novel method of constructing continuous prompts via discrete prompt embeddings and evaluate improvements to continuous prompt interpretability and inference accuracy. For a set of manually designed discrete prompts $\mathcal{D}$, which we tokenize and embed each into tensor form, we train a model to predict the weights such that the linear combinations of those prompts correspond to higher performance on natural language understanding tasks.

------------

`[2401.08273] Large Language Models are Null-Shot Learners <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08273>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:34:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Pittawat Taveekitworachai [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 16 Jan 2024 10:53:11 UTC (8,564 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:34:48 UTC (8,575 KB)
    Pittawat Taveekitworachai, Febri Abdullah, Ruck Thawonmas

This paper presents null-shot prompting. Null-shot prompting exploits hallucination in large language models (LLMs) by instructing LLMs to utilize information from the "Examples" section that never exists within the provided context to perform a task. While reducing hallucination is crucial and non-negligible for daily and critical uses of LLMs, we propose that in the current landscape in which these LLMs still hallucinate, it is possible, in fact, to exploit hallucination to increase performance in performing tasks compared to standard zero-shot prompting. Experiments with eight LLMs show improvements in performance across the majority of eight datasets, including reading comprehension, arithmetic reasoning, and closed-book question answering. The observed inconsistency in increased relative performance across the LLMs also potentially indicates a different degree of inherent hallucination in each model. These differences show that it is possible to utilize null-shot prompting as a way to detect degrees of hallucination in LLMs using existing benchmarking datasets. We also perform ablation studies, including experimenting with a modified version of null-shot prompting that incorporates ideas from zero-shot chain-of-thought prompting, which shows different trends of results.

------------

`[2401.11624] In-context Learning with Retrieved Demonstrations for Language Models: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11624>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 13 Feb 2024 20:46:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Man Luo [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 23:34:42 UTC (178 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 03:35:40 UTC (178 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 20:46:32 UTC (178 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 04:38:53 UTC (183 KB)
    [v5] Sat, 23 Mar 2024 16:35:45 UTC (183 KB)
    Man Luo, Xin Xu, Yue Liu, Panupong Pasupat, Mehran Kazemi

Language models, especially pre-trained large language models, have showcased remarkable abilities as few-shot in-context learners (ICL), adept at adapting to new tasks with just a few demonstrations in the input context. However, the model's ability to perform ICL is sensitive to the choice of the few-shot demonstrations. Instead of using a fixed set of demonstrations, one recent development is to retrieve demonstrations tailored to each input query. The implementation of demonstration retrieval is relatively straightforward, leveraging existing databases and retrieval systems. This not only improves the efficiency and scalability of the learning process but also has been shown to reduce biases inherent in manual example selection. In light of the encouraging results and growing research in ICL with retrieved demonstrations, we conduct an extensive review of studies in this area. In this survey, we discuss and compare different design choices for retrieval models, retrieval training procedures, and inference algorithms.

------------

`[2402.01535] An Empirical Analysis of Diversity in Argument Summarization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01535>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:51:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Michiel van der Meer [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 16:26:52 UTC (7,589 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:51:08 UTC (7,589 KB)
    Michiel van der Meer, Piek Vossen, Catholijn M. Jonker, Pradeep K. Murukannaiah

Presenting high-level arguments is a crucial task for fostering participation in online societal discussions. Current argument summarization approaches miss an important facet of this task -- capturing diversity -- which is important for accommodating multiple perspectives. We introduce three aspects of diversity: those of opinions, annotators, and sources. We evaluate approaches to a popular argument summarization task called Key Point Analysis, which shows how these approaches struggle to (1) represent arguments shared by few people, (2) deal with data from various sources, and (3) align with subjectivity in human-provided annotations. We find that both general-purpose LLMs and dedicated KPA models exhibit this behavior, but have complementary strengths. Further, we observe that diversification of training data may ameliorate generalization. Addressing diversity in argument summarization requires a mix of strategies to deal with subjectivity.

------------

`[2402.04838] PaDeLLM-NER: Parallel Decoding in Large Language Models for Named Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04838>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:51:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinghui Lu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 13:39:38 UTC (319 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 09:04:21 UTC (7,989 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 12:51:56 UTC (7,984 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 01:52:16 UTC (7,984 KB)
    Jinghui Lu, Ziwei Yang, Yanjie Wang, Xuejing Liu, Can Huang

In this study, we aim to reduce generation latency for Named Entity Recognition (NER) with Large Language Models (LLMs). The main cause of high latency in LLMs is the sequential decoding process, which autoregressively generates all labels and mentions for NER, significantly increase the sequence length. To this end, we introduce Parallel Decoding in LLM for NE} (PaDeLLM-NER), a approach that integrates seamlessly into existing generative model frameworks without necessitating additional modules or architectural modifications. PaDeLLM-NER allows for the simultaneous decoding of all mentions, thereby reducing generation latency. Experiments reveal that PaDeLLM-NER significantly increases inference speed that is 1.76 to 10.22 times faster than the autoregressive approach for both English and Chinese. Simultaneously it maintains the quality of predictions as evidenced by the performance that is on par with the state-of-the-art across various datasets.

------------

`[2402.05128] Enhancing Textbook Question Answering Task with Large Language Models and Retrieval Augmented Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05128>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:06:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Hessa Alawwad [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 11:58:56 UTC (1,434 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 10:06:54 UTC (1,434 KB)
    Hessa Abdulrahman Alawwad, Areej Alhothali, Usman Naseem, Ali Alkhathlan, Amani Jamal

Textbook question answering (TQA) is a challenging task in artificial intelligence due to the complex nature of context and multimodal data. Although previous research has significantly improved the task, there are still some limitations including the models' weak reasoning and inability to capture contextual information in the lengthy context. The introduction of large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized the field of AI, however, directly applying LLMs often leads to inaccurate answers. This paper proposes a methodology that handle the out-of-domain scenario in TQA where concepts are spread across different lessons by incorporating the retrieval augmented generation (RAG) technique and utilize transfer learning to handle the long context and enhance reasoning abilities. Through supervised fine-tuning of the LLM model Llama-2 and the incorporation of RAG, our architecture outperforms the baseline, achieving a 4.12% accuracy improvement on validation set and 9.84% on test set for non-diagram multiple-choice questions.

------------

`[2402.08113] Addressing cognitive bias in medical language models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08113>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 17:52:45 GMT
    Submission history From: Samuel Schmidgall [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 23:08:37 UTC (20,246 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 17:52:45 UTC (20,246 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 23:45:43 UTC (20,246 KB)
    Samuel Schmidgall, Carl Harris, Ime Essien, Daniel Olshvang, Tawsifur Rahman, Ji Woong Kim, Rojin Ziaei, Jason Eshraghian, Peter Abadir, Rama Chellappa

There is increasing interest in the application large language models (LLMs) to the medical field, in part because of their impressive performance on medical exam questions. While promising, exam questions do not reflect the complexity of real patient-doctor interactions. In reality, physicians' decisions are shaped by many complex factors, such as patient compliance, personal experience, ethical beliefs, and cognitive bias. Taking a step toward understanding this, our hypothesis posits that when LLMs are confronted with clinical questions containing cognitive biases, they will yield significantly less accurate responses compared to the same questions presented without such biases. In this study, we developed BiasMedQA, a benchmark for evaluating cognitive biases in LLMs applied to medical tasks. Using BiasMedQA we evaluated six LLMs, namely GPT-4, Mixtral-8x70B, GPT-3.5, PaLM-2, Llama 2 70B-chat, and the medically specialized PMC Llama 13B. We tested these models on 1,273 questions from the US Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE) Steps 1, 2, and 3, modified to replicate common clinically-relevant cognitive biases. Our analysis revealed varying effects for biases on these LLMs, with GPT-4 standing out for its resilience to bias, in contrast to Llama 2 70B-chat and PMC Llama 13B, which were disproportionately affected by cognitive bias. Our findings highlight the critical need for bias mitigation in the development of medical LLMs, pointing towards safer and more reliable applications in healthcare.

------------

`[2402.08303] ChatCell: Facilitating Single-Cell Analysis with Natural Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08303>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 08:09:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Yin Fang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 09:06:14 UTC (4,255 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 08:09:58 UTC (4,255 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 17:23:20 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    [v4] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 02:26:39 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    Yin Fang, Kangwei Liu, Ningyu Zhang, Xinle Deng, Penghui Yang, Zhuo Chen, Xiangru Tang, Mark Gerstein, Xiaohui Fan, Huajun Chen

As Large Language Models (LLMs) rapidly evolve, their influence in science is becoming increasingly prominent. The emerging capabilities of LLMs in task generalization and free-form dialogue can significantly advance fields like chemistry and biology. However, the field of single-cell biology, which forms the foundational building blocks of living organisms, still faces several challenges. High knowledge barriers and limited scalability in current methods restrict the full exploitation of LLMs in mastering single-cell data, impeding direct accessibility and rapid iteration. To this end, we introduce ChatCell, which signifies a paradigm shift by facilitating single-cell analysis with natural language. Leveraging vocabulary adaptation and unified sequence generation, ChatCell has acquired profound expertise in single-cell biology and the capability to accommodate a diverse range of analysis tasks. Extensive experiments further demonstrate ChatCell's robust performance and potential to deepen single-cell insights, paving the way for more accessible and intuitive exploration in this pivotal field. Our project homepage is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.08638] SemRel2024: A Collection of Semantic Textual Relatedness Datasets for 14 Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08638>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 09:49:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Nedjma Ousidhoum [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 18:04:53 UTC (7,854 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 09:49:52 UTC (7,854 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 16:15:01 UTC (6,892 KB)
    Nedjma Ousidhoum, Shamsuddeen Hassan Muhammad, Mohamed Abdalla, Idris Abdulmumin, Ibrahim Said Ahmad, Sanchit Ahuja, Alham Fikri Aji, Vladimir Araujo, Abinew Ali Ayele, Pavan Baswani, Meriem Beloucif, Chris Biemann, Sofia Bourhim, Christine De Kock, Genet Shanko Dekebo, Oumaima Hourrane, Gopichand Kanumolu, Lokesh Madasu, Samuel Rutunda, Manish Shrivastava, Thamar Solorio, Nirmal Surange, Hailegnaw Getaneh Tilaye, Krishnapriya Vishnubhotla, Genta Winata, Seid Muhie Yimam, Saif M. Mohammad

Exploring and quantifying semantic relatedness is central to representing language. It holds significant implications across various NLP tasks, including offering insights into the capabilities and performance of Large Language Models (LLMs). While earlier NLP research primarily focused on semantic similarity, often within the English language context, we instead investigate the broader phenomenon of semantic relatedness. In this paper, we present SemRel, a new semantic relatedness dataset collection annotated by native speakers across 14 languages:Afrikaans, Algerian Arabic, Amharic, English, Hausa, Hindi, Indonesian, Kinyarwanda, Marathi, Moroccan Arabic, Modern Standard Arabic, Punjabi, Spanish, and Telugu. These languages originate from five distinct language families and are predominantly spoken in Africa and Asia -- regions characterised by a relatively limited availability of NLP resources. Each instance in the SemRel datasets is a sentence pair associated with a score that represents the degree of semantic textual relatedness between the two sentences. The scores are obtained using a comparative annotation framework. We describe the data collection and annotation processes, related challenges when building the datasets, and their impact and utility in NLP. We further report experiments for each language and across the different languages.

------------

`[2310.09639] DPZero: Private Fine-Tuning of Language Models without Backpropagation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09639>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 09:42:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Liang Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 14 Oct 2023 18:42:56 UTC (44 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 09:42:42 UTC (3,420 KB)
    Liang Zhang, Bingcong Li, Kiran Koshy Thekumparampil, Sewoong Oh, Niao He

The widespread practice of fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) on domain-specific data faces two major challenges in memory and privacy. First, as the size of LLMs continues to grow, the memory demands of gradient-based training methods via backpropagation become prohibitively high. Second, given the tendency of LLMs to memorize training data, it is important to protect potentially sensitive information in the fine-tuning data from being regurgitated. Zeroth-order methods, which rely solely on forward passes, substantially reduce memory consumption during training. However, directly combining them with standard differentially private gradient descent suffers from growing model size. To bridge this gap, we introduce DPZero, a novel private zeroth-order algorithm with nearly dimension-independent rates. The memory efficiency of DPZero is demonstrated in privately fine-tuning RoBERTa on six downstream tasks.

------------

`[2311.06668] In-context Vectors: Making In Context Learning More Effective and Controllable Through Latent Space Steering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06668>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 13 Feb 2024 22:37:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Sheng Liu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 11 Nov 2023 21:19:44 UTC (680 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 22:39:00 UTC (680 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 22:37:39 UTC (667 KB)
    Sheng Liu, Haotian Ye, Lei Xing, James Zou

Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate emergent in-context learning capabilities, where they adapt to new tasks based on example demonstrations. However, in-context learning has seen limited effectiveness in many settings, is difficult to quantitatively control and takes up context window space. To overcome these limitations, we propose an alternative approach that recasts in-context learning as in-context vectors (ICV). Using ICV has two steps. We first use a forward pass on demonstration examples to create the in-context vector from the latent embedding of the LLM. This vector captures essential information about the intended task. On a new query, instead of adding demonstrations to the prompt, we shift the latent states of the LLM using the ICV. The ICV approach has several benefits: 1) it enables the LLM to more effectively follow the demonstration examples; 2) it's easy to control by adjusting the magnitude of the ICV; 3) it reduces the length of the prompt by removing the in-context demonstrations; 4) ICV is computationally much more efficient than fine-tuning. We demonstrate that ICV achieves better performance compared to standard in-context learning and fine-tuning on diverse tasks including safety, style transfer, role-playing and formatting. Moreover, we show that we can flexibly teach LLM to simultaneously follow different types of instructions by simple vector arithmetics on the corresponding ICVs.

------------

`[2402.01207] Efficient Causal Graph Discovery Using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01207>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 13 Feb 2024 22:27:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Thomas Jiralerspong [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 08:25:32 UTC (169 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 04:44:23 UTC (168 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 22:27:00 UTC (168 KB)
    Thomas Jiralerspong, Xiaoyin Chen, Yash More, Vedant Shah, Yoshua Bengio

We propose a novel framework that leverages LLMs for full causal graph discovery. While previous LLM-based methods have used a pairwise query approach, this requires a quadratic number of queries which quickly becomes impractical for larger causal graphs. In contrast, the proposed framework uses a breadth-first search (BFS) approach which allows it to use only a linear number of queries. We also show that the proposed method can easily incorporate observational data when available, to improve performance. In addition to being more time and data-efficient, the proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art results on real-world causal graphs of varying sizes. The results demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method in discovering causal relationships, showcasing its potential for broad applicability in causal graph discovery tasks across different domains.

------------

`[2402.04362] Neural Networks Learn Statistics of Increasing Complexity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04362>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 13 Feb 2024 23:54:45 GMT
    Submission history From: Nora Belrose [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 20:03:35 UTC (2,200 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 23:54:45 UTC (2,222 KB)
    Nora Belrose, Quintin Pope, Lucia Quirke, Alex Mallen, Xiaoli Fern

The distributional simplicity bias (DSB) posits that neural networks learn low-order moments of the data distribution first, before moving on to higher-order correlations. In this work, we present compelling new evidence for the DSB by showing that networks automatically learn to perform well on maximum-entropy distributions whose low-order statistics match those of the training set early in training, then lose this ability later. We also extend the DSB to discrete domains by proving an equivalence between token $n$-gram frequencies and the moments of embedding vectors, and by finding empirical evidence for the bias in LLMs. Finally we use optimal transport methods to surgically edit the low-order statistics of one class to match those of another, and show that early-training networks treat the edited samples as if they were drawn from the target class. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.08132] On the Resurgence of Recurrent Models for Long Sequences -- Survey and Research Opportunities in the Transformer Era <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08132>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:04:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Matteo Tiezzi [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 23:55:55 UTC (76 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 13:04:28 UTC (76 KB)
    Matteo Tiezzi, Michele Casoni, Alessandro Betti, Tommaso Guidi, Marco Gori and Stefano Melacci

A longstanding challenge for the Machine Learning community is the one of developing models that are capable of processing and learning from very long sequences of data. The outstanding results of Transformers-based networks (e.g., Large Language Models) promotes the idea of parallel attention as the key to succeed in such a challenge, obfuscating the role of classic sequential processing of Recurrent Models. However, in the last few years, researchers who were concerned by the quadratic complexity of self-attention have been proposing a novel wave of neural models, which gets the best from the two worlds, i.e., Transformers and Recurrent Nets. Meanwhile, Deep Space-State Models emerged as robust approaches to function approximation over time, thus opening a new perspective in learning from sequential data, followed by many people in the field and exploited to implement a special class of (linear) Recurrent Neural Networks. This survey is aimed at providing an overview of these trends framed under the unifying umbrella of Recurrence. Moreover, it emphasizes novel research opportunities that become prominent when abandoning the idea of processing long sequences whose length is known-in-advance for the more realistic setting of potentially infinite-length sequences, thus intersecting the field of lifelong-online learning from streamed data.

------------

`[2402.08309] Prompted Contextual Vectors for Spear-Phishing Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08309>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 08:10:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Daniel Nahmias [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 09:12:55 UTC (4,048 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 08:10:38 UTC (4,048 KB)
    Daniel Nahmias, Gal Engelberg, Dan Klein, Asaf Shabtai

Spear-phishing attacks present a significant security challenge, with large language models (LLMs) escalating the threat by generating convincing emails and facilitating target reconnaissance. To address this, we propose a detection approach based on a novel document vectorization method that utilizes an ensemble of LLMs to create representation vectors. By prompting LLMs to reason and respond to human-crafted questions, we quantify the presence of common persuasion principles in the email's content, producing prompted contextual document vectors for a downstream supervised machine learning model. We evaluate our method using a unique dataset generated by a proprietary system that automates target reconnaissance and spear-phishing email creation. Our method achieves a 91% F1 score in identifying LLM-generated spear-phishing emails, with the training set comprising only traditional phishing and benign emails. Key contributions include an innovative document vectorization method utilizing LLM reasoning, a publicly available dataset of high-quality spear-phishing emails, and the demonstrated effectiveness of our method in detecting such emails. This methodology can be utilized for various document classification tasks, particularly in adversarial problem domains.

------------

`[2311.07601] Online Advertisements with LLMs: Opportunities and Challenges <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07601>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 00:02:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Suho Shin [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 11 Nov 2023 02:13:32 UTC (357 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 00:02:57 UTC (4,487 KB)
    Soheil Feizi, MohammadTaghi Hajiaghayi, Keivan Rezaei, Suho Shin

This paper explores the potential for leveraging Large Language Models (LLM) in the realm of online advertising systems. We delve into essential requirements including privacy, latency, reliability as well as the satisfaction of users and advertisers which such a system must fulfill. We further introduce a general framework for LLM advertisement, consisting of modification, bidding, prediction, and auction modules. Different design considerations for each module is presented, with an in-depth examination of their practicality and the technical challenges inherent to their implementation. Finally, we explore the prospect of LLM-based dynamic creative optimization as a means to significantly enhance the appeal of advertisements to users and discuss its additional challenges.

------------

`[2402.03781] MolTC: Towards Molecular Relational Modeling In Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03781>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:39:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Junfeng Fang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:51:56 UTC (7,820 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:54:54 UTC (7,844 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 04:28:48 UTC (7,846 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:39:46 UTC (7,849 KB)
    [v5] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:03:13 UTC (7,853 KB)
    Junfeng Fang, Shuai Zhang, Chang Wu, Zhengyi Yang, Zhiyuan Liu, Sihang Li, Kun Wang, Wenjie Du and Xiang Wang

Molecular Relational Learning (MRL), aiming to understand interactions between molecular pairs, plays a pivotal role in advancing biochemical research. Recently, the adoption of large language models (LLMs), known for their vast knowledge repositories and advanced logical inference capabilities, has emerged as a promising way for efficient and effective MRL. Despite their potential, these methods predominantly rely on the textual data, thus not fully harnessing the wealth of structural information inherent in molecular graphs. Moreover, the absence of a unified framework exacerbates the issue of information underutilization, as it hinders the sharing of interaction mechanism learned across diverse datasets. To address these challenges, this work proposes a novel LLM-based multi-modal framework for Molecular inTeraction prediction following Chain-of-Thought (CoT) theory, termed MolTC, which effectively integrate graphical information of two molecules in pair. For achieving a unified MRL, MolTC innovatively develops a dynamic parameter-sharing strategy for cross-dataset information sharing. Moreover, to train MolTC efficiently, we introduce a Multi-hierarchical CoT concept to refine its training paradigm, and conduct a comprehensive Molecular Interactive Instructions dataset for the development of biochemical LLMs involving MRL. Our experiments, conducted across various datasets involving over 4,000,000 molecular pairs, exhibit the superiority of our method over current GNN and LLM-based baselines. Code is available at this https URL.
