240222
========

`[2402.13364] A Simple but Effective Approach to Improve Structured Language Model Output for Information Extraction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13364>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 20:42:02 GMT
    Yinghao Li, Rampi Ramprasad, Chao Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive abilities in generating unstructured natural language according to instructions. However, their performance can be inconsistent when tasked with producing text that adheres to specific structured formats, which is crucial in applications like named entity recognition (NER) or relation extraction (RE). To address this issue, this paper introduces an efficient method, G&O, to enhance their structured text generation capabilities. It breaks the generation into a two-step pipeline: initially, LLMs generate answers in natural language as intermediate responses. Subsequently, LLMs are asked to organize the output into the desired structure, using the intermediate responses as context. G&O effectively separates the generation of content from the structuring process, reducing the pressure of completing two orthogonal tasks simultaneously. Tested on zero-shot NER and RE, the results indicate a significant improvement in LLM performance with minimal additional efforts. This straightforward and adaptable prompting technique can also be combined with other strategies, like self-consistency, to further elevate LLM capabilities in various structured text generation tasks.

------------

`[2402.13372] EvoGrad: A Dynamic Take on the Winograd Schema Challenge with Human Adversaries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13372>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 20:53:24 GMT
    Jing Han Sun and Ali Emami

While Large Language Models (LLMs) excel at the Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC), a coreference resolution task testing common-sense reasoning through pronoun disambiguation, they struggle with instances that feature minor alterations or rewording. To address this, we introduce EvoGrad, an open-source platform that harnesses a human-in-the-loop approach to create a dynamic dataset tailored to such altered WSC instances. Leveraging ChatGPT's capabilities, we expand our task instances from 182 to 3,691, setting a new benchmark for diverse common-sense reasoning datasets. Additionally, we introduce the error depth metric, assessing model stability in dynamic tasks.
Our results emphasize the challenge posed by EvoGrad: Even the best performing LLM, GPT-3.5, achieves an accuracy of 65.0% with an average error depth of 7.2, a stark contrast to human performance of 92. 8% accuracy without perturbation errors. This highlights ongoing model limitations and the value of dynamic datasets in uncovering them.

------------

`[2402.13374] Reliable LLM-based User Simulator for Task-Oriented Dialogue Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13374>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 20:57:47 GMT
    Ivan Sekuli\'c, Silvia Terragni, Victor Guimar\~aes, Nghia Khau, Bruna Guedes, Modestas Filipavicius, Andr\'e Ferreira Manso, Roland Mathis

In the realm of dialogue systems, user simulation techniques have emerged as a game-changer, redefining the evaluation and enhancement of task-oriented dialogue (TOD) systems. These methods are crucial for replicating real user interactions, enabling applications like synthetic data augmentation, error detection, and robust evaluation. However, existing approaches often rely on rigid rule-based methods or on annotated data. This paper introduces DAUS, a Domain-Aware User Simulator. Leveraging large language models, we fine-tune DAUS on real examples of task-oriented dialogues. Results on two relevant benchmarks showcase significant improvements in terms of user goal fulfillment.
Notably, we have observed that fine-tuning enhances the simulator's coherence with user goals, effectively mitigating hallucinations -- a major source of inconsistencies in simulator responses.

------------

`[2402.13405] A Unified Taxonomy-Guided Instruction Tuning Framework for Entity Set Expansion and Taxonomy Expansion <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13405>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:19:56 GMT
    Yanzhen Shen, Yu Zhang, Yunyi Zhang, Jiawei Han

Entity Set Expansion, Taxonomy Expansion, and Seed-Guided Taxonomy Construction are three representative tasks that can be used to automatically populate an existing taxonomy with new entities. However, previous approaches often address these tasks separately with heterogeneous techniques, lacking a unified perspective. To tackle this issue, in this paper, we identify the common key skills needed for these tasks from the view of taxonomy structures -- finding 'siblings' and finding 'parents' -- and propose a unified taxonomy-guided instruction tuning framework to jointly solve the three tasks.
To be specific, by leveraging the existing taxonomy as a rich source of entity relationships, we utilize instruction tuning to fine-tune a large language model to generate parent and sibling entities. Extensive experiments on multiple benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of TaxoInstruct, which outperforms task-specific baselines across all three tasks.

------------

`[2402.13408] Healthcare Copilot: Eliciting the Power of General LLMs for Medical Consultation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13408>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:26:35 GMT
    Zhiyao Ren, Yibing Zhan, Baosheng Yu, Liang Ding, Dacheng Tao

The copilot framework, which aims to enhance and tailor large language models (LLMs) for specific complex tasks without requiring fine-tuning, is gaining increasing attention from the community. In this paper, we introduce the construction of a Healthcare Copilot designed for medical consultation. The proposed Healthcare Copilot comprises three main components: 1) the Dialogue component, responsible for effective and safe patient interactions; 2) the Memory component, storing both current conversation data and historical patient information; and 3) the Processing component, summarizing the entire dialogue and generating reports. To evaluate the proposed Healthcare Copilot, we implement an auto-evaluation scheme using ChatGPT for two roles: as a virtual patient engaging in dialogue with the copilot, and as an evaluator to assess the quality of the dialogue. Extensive results demonstrate that the proposed Healthcare Copilot significantly enhances the capabilities of general LLMs for medical consultations in terms of inquiry capability, conversational fluency, response accuracy, and safety. Furthermore, we conduct ablation studies to highlight the contribution of each individual module in the Healthcare Copilot.
Code will be made publicly available on GitHub.

------------

`[2402.13415] Structure Guided Prompt: Instructing Large Language Model in Multi-Step Reasoning by Exploring Graph Structure of the Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13415>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:56:23 GMT
    Kewei Cheng, Nesreen K. Ahmed, Theodore Willke, Yizhou Sun

Although Large Language Models (LLMs) excel at addressing straightforward reasoning tasks, they frequently struggle with difficulties when confronted by more complex multi-step reasoning due to a range of factors. Firstly, natural language often encompasses complex relationships among entities, making it challenging to maintain a clear reasoning chain over longer spans. Secondly, the abundance of linguistic diversity means that the same entities and relationships can be expressed using different terminologies and structures, complicating the task of identifying and establishing connections between multiple pieces of information. Graphs provide an effective solution to represent data rich in relational information and capture long-term dependencies among entities. To harness the potential of graphs, our paper introduces Structure Guided Prompt, an innovative three-stage task-agnostic prompting framework designed to improve the multi-step reasoning capabilities of LLMs in a zero-shot setting. This framework explicitly converts unstructured text into a graph via LLMs and instructs them to navigate this graph using task-specific strategies to formulate responses. By effectively organizing information and guiding navigation, it enables LLMs to provide more accurate and context-aware responses. Our experiments show that this framework significantly enhances the reasoning capabilities of LLMs, enabling them to excel in a broader spectrum of natural language scenarios.

------------

`[2402.13426] Explaining Relationships Among Research Papers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13426>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 23:38:39 GMT
    Xiangci Li and Jessica Ouyang

Due to the rapid pace of research publications, keeping up to date with all the latest related papers is very time-consuming, even with daily feed tools.
There is a need for automatically generated, short, customized literature reviews of sets of papers to help researchers decide what to read. While several works in the last decade have addressed the task of explaining a single research paper, usually in the context of another paper citing it, the relationship among multiple papers has been ignored; prior works have focused on generating a single citation sentence in isolation, without addressing the expository and transition sentences needed to connect multiple papers in a coherent story. In this work, we explore a feature-based, LLM-prompting approach to generate richer citation texts, as well as generating multiple citations at once to capture the complex relationships among research papers.
We perform an expert evaluation to investigate the impact of our proposed features on the quality of the generated paragraphs and find a strong correlation between human preference and integrative writing style, suggesting that humans prefer high-level, abstract citations, with transition sentences between them to provide an overall story.

------------

`[2402.13446] Large Language Models for Data Annotation: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13446>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 00:44:04 GMT
    Zhen Tan, Alimohammad Beigi, Song Wang, Ruocheng Guo, Amrita Bhattacharjee, Bohan Jiang, Mansooreh Karami, Jundong Li, Lu Cheng, Huan Liu

Data annotation is the labeling or tagging of raw data with relevant information, essential for improving the efficacy of machine learning models.
The process, however, is labor-intensive and expensive. The emergence of advanced Large Language Models (LLMs), exemplified by GPT-4, presents an unprecedented opportunity to revolutionize and automate the intricate process of data annotation. While existing surveys have extensively covered LLM architecture, training, and general applications, this paper uniquely focuses on their specific utility for data annotation. This survey contributes to three core aspects: LLM-Based Data Annotation, Assessing LLM-generated Annotations, and Learning with LLM-generated annotations. Furthermore, the paper includes an in-depth taxonomy of methodologies employing LLMs for data annotation, a comprehensive review of learning strategies for models incorporating LLM-generated annotations, and a detailed discussion on primary challenges and limitations associated with using LLMs for data annotation. As a key guide, this survey aims to direct researchers and practitioners in exploring the potential of the latest LLMs for data annotation, fostering future advancements in this critical domain. We provide a comprehensive papers list at \url{https://github.com/Zhen-Tan-dmml/LLM4Annotation.git}.

------------

`[2402.13449] CAMELoT: Towards Large Language Models with Training-Free Consolidated Associative Memory <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13449>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 01:00:17 GMT
    Zexue He, Leonid Karlinsky, Donghyun Kim, Julian McAuley, Dmitry Krotov, Rogerio Feris

Large Language Models (LLMs) struggle to handle long input sequences due to high memory and runtime costs. Memory-augmented models have emerged as a promising solution to this problem, but current methods are hindered by limited memory capacity and require costly re-training to integrate with a new LLM. In this work, we introduce an associative memory module which can be coupled to any pre-trained (frozen) attention-based LLM without re-training, enabling it to handle arbitrarily long input sequences. Unlike previous methods, our associative memory module consolidates representations of individual tokens into a non-parametric distribution model, dynamically managed by properly balancing the novelty and recency of the incoming data. By retrieving information from this consolidated associative memory, the base LLM can achieve significant (up to 29.7% on Arxiv) perplexity reduction in long-context modeling compared to other baselines evaluated on standard benchmarks. This architecture, which we call CAMELoT (Consolidated Associative Memory Enhanced Long Transformer), demonstrates superior performance even with a tiny context window of 128 tokens, and also enables improved in-context learning with a much larger set of demonstrations.

------------

`[2402.13462] Potential and Challenges of Model Editing for Social Debiasing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13462>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 01:35:26 GMT
    Jianhao Yan, Futing Wang, Yafu Li, Yue Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) trained on vast corpora suffer from inevitable stereotype biases. Mitigating these biases with fine-tuning could be both costly and data-hungry. Model editing methods, which focus on modifying LLMs in a post-hoc manner, are of great potential to address debiasing. However, it lacks a comprehensive study that facilitates both internal and external model editing methods, supports various bias types, as well as understands the pros and cons of applying editing methods to stereotypical debiasing. To mitigate this gap, we carefully formulate social debiasing into an editing problem and benchmark seven existing model editing algorithms on stereotypical debiasing, i.e., debias editing. Our findings in three scenarios reveal both the potential and challenges of debias editing: (1) Existing model editing methods can effectively preserve knowledge and mitigate biases, while the generalization of debias effect from edited sentences to semantically equivalent sentences is limited.(2) Sequential editing highlights the robustness of SERAC (Mitchell et al. 2022b), while internal editing methods degenerate with the number of edits.
(3) Model editing algorithms achieve generalization towards unseen biases both within the same type and from different types. In light of these findings, we further propose two simple but effective methods to improve debias editing, and experimentally show the effectiveness of the proposed methods.

------------

`[2402.13463] RefuteBench: Evaluating Refuting Instruction-Following for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13463>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 01:39:56 GMT
    Jianhao Yan, Yun Luo, Yue Zhang

The application scope of large language models (LLMs) is increasingly expanding. In practical use, users might provide feedback based on the model's output, hoping for a responsive model that can complete responses according to their feedback. Whether the model can appropriately respond to users' refuting feedback and consistently follow through with execution has not been thoroughly analyzed. In light of this, this paper proposes a comprehensive benchmark, RefuteBench, covering tasks such as question answering, machine translation, and email writing. The evaluation aims to assess whether models can positively accept feedback in form of refuting instructions and whether they can consistently adhere to user demands throughout the conversation. We conduct evaluations on numerous LLMs and find that LLMs are stubborn, i.e. exhibit inclination to their internal knowledge, often failing to comply with user feedback. Additionally, as the length of the conversation increases, models gradually forget the user's stated feedback and roll back to their own responses. We further propose a recall-and-repeat prompts as a simple and effective way to enhance the model's responsiveness to feedback.

------------

`[2402.13482] Retrieval-Augmented Data Augmentation for Low-Resource Domain Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13482>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:45:46 GMT
    Minju Seo, Jinheon Baek, James Thorne, Sung Ju Hwang

Despite large successes of recent language models on diverse tasks, they suffer from severe performance degeneration in low-resource settings with limited training data available. Many existing works tackle this problem by generating synthetic data from the training data and then training models on them, recently using Large Language Models (LLMs). However, in low-resource settings, the amount of seed data samples to use for data augmentation is very small, which makes generated samples suboptimal and less diverse. To tackle this challenge, we propose a novel method that augments training data by incorporating a wealth of examples from other datasets, along with the given training data. Specifically, we first retrieve the relevant instances from other datasets, such as their input-output pairs or contexts, based on their similarities with the given seed data, and then prompt LLMs to generate new samples with the contextual information within and across the original and retrieved samples. This approach can ensure that the generated data is not only relevant but also more diverse than what could be achieved using the limited seed data alone. We validate our proposed Retrieval-Augmented Data Augmentation (RADA) framework on multiple datasets under low-resource settings of training and test-time data augmentation scenarios, on which it outperforms existing LLM-powered data augmentation baselines.

------------

`[2402.13492] Retrieval Helps or Hurts? A Deeper Dive into the Efficacy of Retrieval Augmentation to Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13492>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:05:50 GMT
    Seiji Maekawa, Hayate Iso, Sairam Gurajada, Nikita Bhutani

While large language models (LMs) demonstrate remarkable performance, they encounter challenges in providing accurate responses when queried for information beyond their pre-trained memorization. Although augmenting them with relevant external information can mitigate these issues, failure to consider the necessity of retrieval may adversely affect overall performance.
Previous research has primarily focused on examining how entities influence retrieval models and knowledge recall in LMs, leaving other aspects relatively unexplored. In this work, our goal is to offer a more detailed, fact-centric analysis by exploring the effects of combinations of entities and relations. To facilitate this, we construct a new question answering (QA) dataset called WiTQA (Wikipedia Triple Question Answers). This dataset includes questions about entities and relations of various popularity levels, each accompanied by a supporting passage. Our extensive experiments with diverse LMs and retrievers reveal when retrieval does not consistently enhance LMs from the viewpoints of fact-centric popularity.Confirming earlier findings, we observe that larger LMs excel in recalling popular facts. However, they notably encounter difficulty with infrequent entity-relation pairs compared to retrievers. Interestingly, they can effectively retain popular relations of less common entities. We demonstrate the efficacy of our finer-grained metric and insights through an adaptive retrieval system that selectively employs retrieval and recall based on the frequencies of entities and relations in the question.

------------

`[2402.13494] GradSafe: Detecting Unsafe Prompts for LLMs via Safety-Critical Gradient Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13494>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:09:21 GMT
    Yueqi Xie, Minghong Fang, Renjie Pi, Neil Gong

Large Language Models (LLMs) face threats from unsafe prompts. Existing methods for detecting unsafe prompts are primarily online moderation APIs or finetuned LLMs. These strategies, however, often require extensive and resource-intensive data collection and training processes. In this study, we propose GradSafe, which effectively detects unsafe prompts by scrutinizing the gradients of safety-critical parameters in LLMs. Our methodology is grounded in a pivotal observation: the gradients of an LLM's loss for unsafe prompts paired with compliance response exhibit similar patterns on certain safety-critical parameters. In contrast, safe prompts lead to markedly different gradient patterns. Building on this observation, GradSafe analyzes the gradients from prompts (paired with compliance responses) to accurately detect unsafe prompts.
We show that GradSafe, applied to Llama-2 without further training, outperforms Llama Guard, despite its extensive finetuning with a large dataset, in detecting unsafe prompts. This superior performance is consistent across both zero-shot and adaptation scenarios, as evidenced by our evaluations on the ToxicChat and XSTest. The source code is available at https://github.com/xyq7/GradSafe.

------------

`[2402.13498] The Lay Person's Guide to Biomedicine: Orchestrating Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13498>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:21:14 GMT
    Zheheng Luo, Qianqian Xie, Sophia Ananiadou

Automated lay summarisation (LS) aims to simplify complex technical documents into a more accessible format to non-experts. Existing approaches using pre-trained language models, possibly augmented with external background knowledge, tend to struggle with effective simplification and explanation.
Moreover, automated methods that can effectively assess the `layness' of generated summaries are lacking. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated a remarkable capacity for text simplification, background information generation, and text evaluation. This has motivated our systematic exploration into using LLMs to generate and evaluate lay summaries of biomedical articles. We propose a novel \textit{Explain-then-Summarise} LS framework, which leverages LLMs to generate high-quality background knowledge to improve supervised LS. We also evaluate the performance of LLMs for zero-shot LS and propose two novel LLM-based LS evaluation metrics, which assess layness from multiple perspectives. Finally, we conduct a human assessment of generated lay summaries. Our experiments reveal that LLM-generated background information can support improved supervised LS.
Furthermore, our novel zero-shot LS evaluation metric demonstrates a high degree of alignment with human preferences. We conclude that LLMs have an important part to play in improving both the performance and evaluation of LS methods.

------------

`[2402.13514] Self-DC: When to retrieve and When to generate? Self Divide-and-Conquer for Compositional Unknown Questions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13514>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:55:02 GMT
    Hongru Wang, Boyang Xue, Baohang Zhou, Tianhua Zhang, Cunxiang Wang, Guanhua Chen, Huimin Wang, Kam-fai Wong

Retrieve-then-read and generate-then-read are two typical solutions to handle unknown and known questions in open-domain question-answering, while the former retrieves necessary external knowledge and the later prompt the large language models to generate internal known knowledge encoded in the parameters. However, few of previous works consider the compositional unknown questions, which consist of several known or unknown sub-questions. Thus, simple binary classification (known or unknown) becomes sub-optimal and inefficient since it will call external retrieval excessively for each compositional unknown question. To this end, we propose the first Compositional unknown Question-Answering dataset (CuQA), and introduce a Self Divide-and-Conquer (Self-DC) framework to empower LLMs to adaptively call different methods on-demand, resulting in better performance and efficiency. Experimental results on two datasets (CuQA and FreshQA) demonstrate that Self-DC can achieve comparable or even better performance with much more less retrieval times compared with several strong baselines.

------------

`[2402.13517] Round Trip Translation Defence against Large Language Model Jailbreaking Attacks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13517>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:59:52 GMT
    Canaan Yung, Hadi Mohaghegh Dolatabadi, Sarah Erfani, Christopher Leckie

Large language models (LLMs) are susceptible to social-engineered attacks that are human-interpretable but require a high level of comprehension for LLMs to counteract. Existing defensive measures can only mitigate less than half of these attacks at most. To address this issue, we propose the Round Trip Translation (RTT) method, the first algorithm specifically designed to defend against social-engineered attacks on LLMs. RTT paraphrases the adversarial prompt and generalizes the idea conveyed, making it easier for LLMs to detect induced harmful behavior. This method is versatile, lightweight, and transferrable to different LLMs. Our defense successfully mitigated over 70% of Prompt Automatic Iterative Refinement (PAIR) attacks, which is currently the most effective defense to the best of our knowledge. We are also the first to attempt mitigating the MathsAttack and reduced its attack success rate by almost 40%. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Cancanxxx/Round_Trip_Translation_Defence

------------

`[2402.13524] OMGEval: An Open Multilingual Generative Evaluation Benchmark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13524>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:42:41 GMT
    Yang Liu, Meng Xu, Shuo Wang, Liner Yang, Haoyu Wang, Zhenghao Liu, Cunliang Kong, Yun Chen, Yang Liu, Maosong Sun, Erhong Yang

Modern large language models (LLMs) should generally benefit individuals from various cultural backgrounds around the world. However, most recent advanced generative evaluation benchmarks tailed for LLMs mainly focus on English. To this end, we introduce OMGEval, the first Open-source Multilingual Generative test set that can assess the capability of LLMs in different languages. For each language, OMGEval provides 804 open-ended questions, covering a wide range of important capabilities of LLMs, such as general knowledge, logical reasoning, and so on. Each question is rigorously verified by human annotators.
Notably, to sufficiently reflect the compatibility of LLMs in different cultural backgrounds, we perform localization for each non-English language.
Specifically, the current version of OMGEval includes 5 languages (i.e., Zh, Ru, Fr, Es, Ar). Following AlpacaEval, we employ GPT-4 as the adjudicator to automatically score different model outputs, which is shown closely related to human evaluation. We evaluate several representative multilingual LLMs on the proposed OMGEval, which we believe will provide a valuable reference for the community to further understand and improve the multilingual capability of LLMs. OMGEval is available at https://github.com/blcuicall/OMGEval.

------------

`[2402.13542] ARL2: Aligning Retrievers for Black-box Large Language Models via Self-guided Adaptive Relevance Labeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13542>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:41:34 GMT
    Lingxi Zhang, Yue Yu, Kuan Wang, Chao Zhang

Retrieval-augmented generation enhances large language models (LLMs) by incorporating relevant information from external knowledge sources. This enables LLMs to adapt to specific domains and mitigate hallucinations in knowledge-intensive tasks. However, existing retrievers are often misaligned with LLMs due to their separate training processes and the black-box nature of LLMs. To address this challenge, we propose ARL2, a retriever learning technique that harnesses LLMs as labelers. ARL2 leverages LLMs to annotate and score relevant evidence, enabling learning the retriever from robust LLM supervision. Furthermore, ARL2 uses an adaptive self-training strategy for curating high-quality and diverse relevance data, which can effectively reduce the annotation cost. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of ARL2, achieving accuracy improvements of 5.4% on NQ and 4.6% on MMLU compared to the state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, ARL2 exhibits robust transfer learning capabilities and strong zero-shot generalization abilities. Our code will be published at \url{https://github.com/zhanglingxi-cs/ARL2}.

------------

`[2402.13546] LLMs Meet Long Video: Advancing Long Video Comprehension with An Interactive Visual Adapter in LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13546>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:56:52 GMT
    Yunxin Li, Xinyu Chen, Baotain Hu, Min Zhang

Long video understanding is a significant and ongoing challenge in the intersection of multimedia and artificial intelligence. Employing large language models (LLMs) for comprehending video becomes an emerging and promising method. However, this approach incurs high computational costs due to the extensive array of video tokens, experiences reduced visual clarity as a consequence of token aggregation, and confronts challenges arising from irrelevant visual tokens while answering video-related questions. To alleviate these issues, we present an Interactive Visual Adapter (IVA) within LLMs, designed to enhance interaction with fine-grained visual elements.
Specifically, we first transform long videos into temporal video tokens via leveraging a visual encoder alongside a pretrained causal transformer, then feed them into LLMs with the video instructions. Subsequently, we integrated IVA, which contains a lightweight temporal frame selector and a spatial feature interactor, within the internal blocks of LLMs to capture instruction-aware and fine-grained visual signals. Consequently, the proposed video-LLM facilitates a comprehensive understanding of long video content through appropriate long video modeling and precise visual interactions. We conducted extensive experiments on nine video understanding benchmarks and experimental results show that our interactive visual adapter significantly improves the performance of video LLMs on long video QA tasks. Ablation studies further verify the effectiveness of IVA in long and short video understandings.

------------

`[2402.13547] ActiveRAG: Revealing the Treasures of Knowledge via Active Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13547>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:04:53 GMT
    Zhipeng Xu, Zhenghao Liu, Yibin Liu, Chenyan Xiong, Yukun Yan, Shuo Wang, Shi Yu, Zhiyuan Liu, Ge Yu

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has introduced a new paradigm for Large Language Models (LLMs), aiding in the resolution of knowledge-intensive tasks.
However, current RAG models position LLMs as passive knowledge receptors, thereby restricting their capacity for learning and comprehending external knowledge. In this paper, we present ActiveRAG, an innovative RAG framework that shifts from passive knowledge acquisition to an active learning mechanism.
This approach utilizes the Knowledge Construction mechanism to develop a deeper understanding of external knowledge by associating it with previously acquired or memorized knowledge. Subsequently, it designs the Cognitive Nexus mechanism to incorporate the outcomes from both chains of thought and knowledge construction, thereby calibrating the intrinsic cognition of LLMs. Our experimental results demonstrate that ActiveRAG surpasses previous RAG models, achieving a 5% improvement on question-answering datasets. All data and codes are available at https://github.com/OpenMatch/ActiveRAG.

------------

`[2402.13550] Are LLMs Effective Negotiators? Systematic Evaluation of the Multifaceted Capabilities of LLMs in Negotiation Dialogues <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13550>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:11:03 GMT
    Deuksin Kwon, Emily Weiss, Tara Kulshrestha, Kushal Chawla, Gale M. Lucas, Jonathan Gratch

A successful negotiation demands a deep comprehension of the conversation context, Theory-of-Mind (ToM) skills to infer the partner's motives, as well as strategic reasoning and effective communication, making it challenging for automated systems. Given the remarkable performance of LLMs across a variety of NLP tasks, in this work, we aim to understand how LLMs can advance different aspects of negotiation research, ranging from designing dialogue systems to providing pedagogical feedback and scaling up data collection practices. To this end, we devise a methodology to analyze the multifaceted capabilities of LLMs across diverse dialogue scenarios covering all the time stages of a typical negotiation interaction. Our analysis adds to the increasing evidence for the superiority of GPT-4 across various tasks while also providing insights into specific tasks that remain difficult for LLMs. For instance, the models correlate poorly with human players when making subjective assessments about the negotiation dialogues and often struggle to generate responses that are contextually appropriate as well as strategically advantageous.

------------

`[2402.13551] Graph Representation of Narrative Context: Coherence Dependency via Retrospective Questions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13551>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:14:04 GMT
    Liyan Xu, Jiangnan Li, Mo Yu, Jie Zhou

This work introduces a novel and practical paradigm for narrative comprehension, stemming from the observation that individual passages within narratives are often cohesively related than being isolated. We therefore propose to formulate a graph upon narratives dubbed NARCO that depicts a task-agnostic coherence dependency of the entire context. Especially, edges in NARCO encompass retrospective free-form questions between two context snippets reflecting high-level coherent relations, inspired by the cognitive perception of humans who constantly reinstate relevant events from prior context.
Importantly, our graph is instantiated through our designed two-stage LLM prompting, thereby without reliance on human annotations. We present three unique studies on its practical utility, examining the edge efficacy via recap identification, local context augmentation via plot retrieval, and broader applications exemplified by long document QA. Experiments suggest that our approaches leveraging NARCO yield performance boost across all three tasks.

------------

`[2402.13561] Cognitive Visual-Language Mapper: Advancing Multimodal Comprehension with Enhanced Visual Knowledge Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13561>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:34:46 GMT
    Yunxin Li, Xinyu Chen, Baotian Hu, Haoyuan Shi, Min Zhang

Evaluating and Rethinking the current landscape of Large Multimodal Models (LMMs), we observe that widely-used visual-language projection approaches (e.g., Q-former or MLP) focus on the alignment of image-text descriptions yet ignore the visual knowledge-dimension alignment, i.e., connecting visuals to their relevant knowledge. Visual knowledge plays a significant role in analyzing, inferring, and interpreting information from visuals, helping improve the accuracy of answers to knowledge-based visual questions. In this paper, we mainly explore improving LMMs with visual-language knowledge alignment, especially aimed at challenging knowledge-based visual question answering (VQA). To this end, we present a Cognitive Visual-Language Mapper (CVLM), which contains a pretrained Visual Knowledge Aligner (VKA) and a Fine-grained Knowledge Adapter (FKA) used in the multimodal instruction tuning stage. Specifically, we design the VKA based on the interaction between a small language model and a visual encoder, training it on collected image-knowledge pairs to achieve visual knowledge acquisition and projection. FKA is employed to distill the fine-grained visual knowledge of an image and inject it into Large Language Models (LLMs). We conduct extensive experiments on knowledge-based VQA benchmarks and experimental results show that CVLM significantly improves the performance of LMMs on knowledge-based VQA (average gain by 5.0%). Ablation studies also verify the effectiveness of VKA and FKA, respectively.

------------

`[2402.13584] WinoViz: Probing Visual Properties of Objects Under Different States <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13584>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:31:47 GMT
    Woojeong Jin, Tejas Srinivasan, Jesse Thomason, Xiang Ren

Humans perceive and comprehend different visual properties of an object based on specific contexts. For instance, we know that a banana turns brown ``when it becomes rotten,'' whereas it appears green ``when it is unripe.'' Previous studies on probing visual commonsense knowledge have primarily focused on examining language models' understanding of typical properties (e.g., colors and shapes) of objects. We present WinoViz, a text-only evaluation dataset, consisting of 1,380 examples that probe the reasoning abilities of language models regarding variant visual properties of objects under different contexts or states. Our task is challenging since it requires pragmatic reasoning (finding intended meanings) and visual knowledge reasoning. We also present multi-hop data, a more challenging version of our data, which requires multi-step reasoning chains to solve our task. In our experimental analysis, our findings are: a) Large language models such as GPT-4 demonstrate effective performance, but when it comes to multi-hop data, their performance is significantly degraded. b) Large models perform well on pragmatic reasoning, but visual knowledge reasoning is a bottleneck in our task. c) Vision-language models outperform their language-model counterparts. d) A model with machine-generated images performs poorly in our task. This is due to the poor quality of the generated images.

------------

`[2402.13587] A Multimodal In-Context Tuning Approach for E-Commerce Product Description Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13587>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:38:29 GMT
    Yunxin Li, Baotian Hu, Wenhan Luo, Lin Ma, Yuxin Ding, Min Zhang

In this paper, we propose a new setting for generating product descriptions from images, augmented by marketing keywords. It leverages the combined power of visual and textual information to create descriptions that are more tailored to the unique features of products. For this setting, previous methods utilize visual and textual encoders to encode the image and keywords and employ a language model-based decoder to generate the product description. However, the generated description is often inaccurate and generic since same-category products have similar copy-writings, and optimizing the overall framework on large-scale samples makes models concentrate on common words yet ignore the product features. To alleviate the issue, we present a simple and effective Multimodal In-Context Tuning approach, named ModICT, which introduces a similar product sample as the reference and utilizes the in-context learning capability of language models to produce the description. During training, we keep the visual encoder and language model frozen, focusing on optimizing the modules responsible for creating multimodal in-context references and dynamic prompts.
This approach preserves the language generation prowess of large language models (LLMs), facilitating a substantial increase in description diversity. To assess the effectiveness of ModICT across various language model scales and types, we collect data from three distinct product categories within the E-commerce domain. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ModICT significantly improves the accuracy (by up to 3.3% on Rouge-L) and diversity (by up to 9.4% on D-5) of generated results compared to conventional methods. Our findings underscore the potential of ModICT as a valuable tool for enhancing automatic generation of product descriptions in a wide range of applications.

------------

`[2402.13593] Knowledge Graph Enhanced Large Language Model Editing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13593>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:52:26 GMT
    Mengqi Zhang, Xiaotian Ye, Qiang Liu, Pengjie Ren, Shu Wu, Zhumin Chen

Large language models (LLMs) are pivotal in advancing natural language processing (NLP) tasks, yet their efficacy is hampered by inaccuracies and outdated knowledge. Model editing emerges as a promising solution to address these challenges. However, existing editing methods struggle to track and incorporate changes in knowledge associated with edits, which limits the generalization ability of postedit LLMs in processing edited knowledge. To tackle these problems, we propose a novel model editing method that leverages knowledge graphs for enhancing LLM editing, namely GLAME. Specifically, we first utilize a knowledge graph augmentation module to uncover associated knowledge that has changed due to editing, obtaining its internal representations within LLMs. This approach allows knowledge alterations within LLMs to be reflected through an external graph structure. Subsequently, we design a graph-based knowledge edit module to integrate structured knowledge into the model editing. This ensures that the updated parameters reflect not only the modifications of the edited knowledge but also the changes in other associated knowledge resulting from the editing process. Comprehensive experiments conducted on GPT-J and GPT-2 XL demonstrate that GLAME significantly improves the generalization capabilities of post-edit LLMs in employing edited knowledge.

------------

`[2402.13598] User-LLM: Efficient LLM Contextualization with User Embeddings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13598>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:03:27 GMT
    Lin Ning, Luyang Liu, Jiaxing Wu, Neo Wu, Devora Berlowitz, Sushant Prakash, Bradley Green, Shawn O'Banion, Jun Xie

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing.
However, effectively incorporating complex and potentially noisy user interaction data remains a challenge. To address this, we propose User-LLM, a novel framework that leverages user embeddings to contextualize LLMs. These embeddings, distilled from diverse user interactions using self-supervised pretraining, capture latent user preferences and their evolution over time. We integrate these user embeddings with LLMs through cross-attention and soft-prompting, enabling LLMs to dynamically adapt to user context. Our comprehensive experiments on MovieLens, Amazon Review, and Google Local Review datasets demonstrate significant performance gains across various tasks.
Notably, our approach outperforms text-prompt-based contextualization on long sequence tasks and tasks that require deep user understanding while being computationally efficient. We further incorporate Perceiver layers to streamline the integration between user encoders and LLMs, reducing computational demands.

------------

`[2402.13605] KorNAT: LLM Alignment Benchmark for Korean Social Values and Common Knowledge <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13605>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:12:26 GMT
    Jiyoung Lee, Minwoo Kim, Seungho Kim, Junghwan Kim, Seunghyun Won, Hwaran Lee, Edward Choi

For Large Language Models (LLMs) to be effectively deployed in a specific country, they must possess an understanding of the nation's culture and basic knowledge. To this end, we introduce National Alignment, which measures an alignment between an LLM and a targeted country from two aspects: social value alignment and common knowledge alignment. Social value alignment evaluates how well the model understands nation-specific social values, while common knowledge alignment examines how well the model captures basic knowledge related to the nation. We constructed KorNAT, the first benchmark that measures national alignment with South Korea. For the social value dataset, we obtained ground truth labels from a large-scale survey involving 6,174 unique Korean participants. For the common knowledge dataset, we constructed samples based on Korean textbooks and GED reference materials. KorNAT contains 4K and 6K multiple-choice questions for social value and common knowledge, respectively.
Our dataset creation process is meticulously designed and based on statistical sampling theory and was refined through multiple rounds of human review. The experiment results of seven LLMs reveal that only a few models met our reference score, indicating a potential for further enhancement. KorNAT has received government approval after passing an assessment conducted by a government-affiliated organization dedicated to evaluating dataset quality.
Samples and detailed evaluation protocols of our dataset can be found in \url{https://selectstar.ai/ko/papers-national-alignment#}

------------

`[2402.13606] A Comprehensive Study of Multilingual Confidence Estimation on Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13606>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:20:06 GMT
    Boyang Xue, Hongru Wang, Weichao Wang, Rui Wang, Sheng Wang, Zeming Liu, Kam-Fai Wong

The tendency of Large Language Models to generate hallucinations and exhibit overconfidence in predictions raises concerns regarding their reliability.
Confidence or uncertainty estimations indicating the extent of trustworthiness of a model's response are essential to developing reliable AI systems. Current research primarily focuses on LLM confidence estimations in English, remaining a void for other widely used languages and impeding the global development of reliable AI applications. This paper introduces a comprehensive investigation of Multi-lingual confidence estimation (MlingConf) on LLMs. First, we introduce an elaborated and expert-checked multilingual QA dataset. Second, we delve into the performance of confidence estimations and examine how these confidence scores can enhance LLM performance through self-refinement across diverse languages. Finally, we propose a cross-lingual confidence estimation method to achieve more precise confidence scores. The experimental results showcase the performance of various confidence estimation methods across different languages as well as present that our proposed cross-lingual confidence estimation technique significantly enhances confidence estimation and outperforms several baseline methods.

------------

`[2402.13623] FLAME: Self-Supervised Low-Resource Taxonomy Expansion using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13623>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:50:40 GMT
    Sahil Mishra, Ujjwal Sudev, Tanmoy Chakraborty

Taxonomies represent an arborescence hierarchical structure that establishes relationships among entities to convey knowledge within a specific domain. Each edge in the taxonomy signifies a hypernym-hyponym relationship. Taxonomies find utility in various real-world applications, such as e-commerce search engines and recommendation systems. Consequently, there arises a necessity to enhance these taxonomies over time. However, manually curating taxonomies with neoteric data presents challenges due to limitations in available human resources and the exponential growth of data. Therefore, it becomes imperative to develop automatic taxonomy expansion methods. Traditional supervised taxonomy expansion approaches encounter difficulties stemming from limited resources, primarily due to the small size of existing taxonomies. This scarcity of training data often leads to overfitting. In this paper, we propose FLAME, a novel approach for taxonomy expansion in low-resource environments by harnessing the capabilities of large language models that are trained on extensive real-world knowledge. LLMs help compensate for the scarcity of domain-specific knowledge.
Specifically, FLAME leverages prompting in few-shot settings to extract the inherent knowledge within the LLMs, ascertaining the hypernym entities within the taxonomy. Furthermore, it employs reinforcement learning to fine-tune the large language models, resulting in more accurate predictions. Experiments on three real-world benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of FLAME in real-world scenarios, achieving a remarkable improvement of 18.5% in accuracy and 12.3% in Wu & Palmer metric over eight baselines. Furthermore, we elucidate the strengths and weaknesses of FLAME through an extensive case study, error analysis and ablation studies on the benchmarks.

------------

`[2402.13647] Unsupervised Text Style Transfer via LLMs and Attention Masking with Multi-way Interactions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13647>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:28:02 GMT
    Lei Pan, Yunshi Lan, Yang Li, Weining Qian

Unsupervised Text Style Transfer (UTST) has emerged as a critical task within the domain of Natural Language Processing (NLP), aiming to transfer one stylistic aspect of a sentence into another style without changing its semantics, syntax, or other attributes. This task is especially challenging given the intrinsic lack of parallel text pairings. Among existing methods for UTST tasks, attention masking approach and Large Language Models (LLMs) are deemed as two pioneering methods. However, they have shortcomings in generating unsmooth sentences and changing the original contents, respectively. In this paper, we investigate if we can combine these two methods effectively. We propose four ways of interactions, that are pipeline framework with tuned orders; knowledge distillation from LLMs to attention masking model; in-context learning with constructed parallel examples. We empirically show these multi-way interactions can improve the baselines in certain perspective of style strength, content preservation and text fluency. Experiments also demonstrate that simply conducting prompting followed by attention masking-based revision can consistently surpass the other systems, including supervised text style transfer systems. On Yelp-clean and Amazon-clean datasets, it improves the previously best mean metric by 0.5 and 3.0 absolute percentages respectively, and achieves new SOTA results.

------------

`[2402.13667] GCOF: Self-iterative Text Generation for Copywriting Using Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13667>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:59:20 GMT
    Jianghui Zhou, Ya Gao, Jie Liu, Xuemin Zhao, Zhaohua Yang, Yue Wu, Lirong Shi

Large language models(LLM) such as ChatGPT have substantially simplified the generation of marketing copy, yet producing content satisfying domain specific requirements, such as effectively engaging customers, remains a significant challenge. In this work, we introduce the Genetic Copy Optimization Framework (GCOF) designed to enhance both efficiency and engagememnt of marketing copy creation. We conduct explicit feature engineering within the prompts of LLM.
Additionally, we modify the crossover operator in Genetic Algorithm (GA), integrating it into the GCOF to enable automatic feature engineering. This integration facilitates a self-iterative refinement of the marketing copy.
Compared to human curated copy, Online results indicate that copy produced by our framework achieves an average increase in click-through rate (CTR) of over $50\%$.

------------

`[2402.13669] Self-Distillation Bridges Distribution Gap in Language Model Fine-Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13669>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 10:06:08 GMT
    Zhaorui Yang, Qian Liu, Tianyu Pang, Han Wang, Haozhe Feng, Minfeng Zhu, Wei Chen

The surge in Large Language Models (LLMs) has revolutionized natural language processing, but fine-tuning them for specific tasks often encounters challenges in balancing performance and preserving general instruction-following abilities. In this paper, we posit that the distribution gap between task datasets and the LLMs serves as the primary underlying cause. To address the problem, we introduce Self-Distillation Fine-Tuning (SDFT), a novel approach that bridges the distribution gap by guiding fine-tuning with a distilled dataset generated by the model itself to match its original distribution.
Experimental results on the Llama-2-chat model across various benchmarks demonstrate that SDFT effectively mitigates catastrophic forgetting while achieving comparable or superior performance on downstream tasks compared to the vanilla fine-tuning. Moreover, SDFT demonstrates the potential to maintain the helpfulness and safety alignment of LLMs. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/sail-sg/sdft}.

------------

`[2402.13671] KInIT at SemEval-2024 Task 8: Fine-tuned LLMs for Multilingual Machine-Generated Text Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13671>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 10:09:56 GMT
    Michal Spiegel and Dominik Macko

SemEval-2024 Task 8 is focused on multigenerator, multidomain, and multilingual black-box machine-generated text detection. Such a detection is important for preventing a potential misuse of large language models (LLMs), the newest of which are very capable in generating multilingual human-like texts. We have coped with this task in multiple ways, utilizing language identification and parameter-efficient fine-tuning of smaller LLMs for text classification. We have further used the per-language classification-threshold calibration to uniquely combine fine-tuned models predictions with statistical detection metrics to improve generalization of the system detection performance. Our submitted method achieved competitive results, ranking at the fourth place, just under 1 percentage point behind the winner.

------------

`[2402.13703] Investigating Multilingual Instruction-Tuning: Do Polyglot Models Demand for Multilingual Instructions? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13703>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:07:07 GMT
    Alexander Arno Weber, Klaudia Thellmann, Jan Ebert, Nicolas Flores-Herr, Jens Lehmann, Michael Fromm and Mehdi Ali

The adaption of multilingual pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) into eloquent and helpful assistants is essential to facilitate their use across different language regions. In that spirit, we are the first to conduct an extensive study of the performance of multilingual models on parallel, multi-turn instruction-tuning benchmarks across a selection of the most-spoken Indo-European languages. We systematically examine the effects of language and instruction dataset size on a mid-sized, multilingual LLM by instruction-tuning it on parallel instruction-tuning datasets. Our results demonstrate that instruction-tuning on parallel instead of monolingual corpora benefits cross-lingual instruction following capabilities by up to 4.6%. Furthermore, we show that the Superficial Alignment Hypothesis does not hold in general, as the investigated multilingual 7B parameter model presents a counter-example requiring large-scale instruction-tuning datasets. Finally, we conduct a human annotation study to understand the alignment between human-based and GPT-4-based evaluation within multilingual chat scenarios.

------------

`[2402.13709] SaGE: Evaluating Moral Consistency in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13709>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:23:21 GMT
    Vamshi Krishna Bonagiri, Sreeram Vennam, Priyanshul Govil, Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, Manas Gaur

Despite recent advancements showcasing the impressive capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in conversational systems, we show that even state-of-the-art LLMs are morally inconsistent in their generations, questioning their reliability (and trustworthiness in general). Prior works in LLM evaluation focus on developing ground-truth data to measure accuracy on specific tasks. However, for moral scenarios that often lack universally agreed-upon answers, consistency in model responses becomes crucial for their reliability. To address this issue, we propose an information-theoretic measure called Semantic Graph Entropy (SaGE), grounded in the concept of "Rules of Thumb" (RoTs) to measure a model's moral consistency. RoTs are abstract principles learned by a model and can help explain their decision-making strategies effectively. To this extent, we construct the Moral Consistency Corpus (MCC), containing 50K moral questions, responses to them by LLMs, and the RoTs that these models followed. Furthermore, to illustrate the generalizability of SaGE, we use it to investigate LLM consistency on two popular datasets -- TruthfulQA and HellaSwag. Our results reveal that task-accuracy and consistency are independent problems, and there is a dire need to investigate these issues further.

------------

`[2402.13717] Neeko: Leveraging Dynamic LoRA for Efficient Multi-Character Role-Playing Agent <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13717>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:30:20 GMT
    Xiaoyan Yu, Tongxu Luo, Yifan Wei, Fangyu Lei, Yiming Huang, Peng Hao, Liehuang Zhu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized open-domain dialogue agents but encounter challenges in multi-character role-playing (MCRP) scenarios. To address the issue, we present Neeko, an innovative framework designed for efficient multiple characters imitation. Unlike existing methods, Neeko employs a dynamic low-rank adapter (LoRA) strategy, enabling it to adapt seamlessly to diverse characters. Our framework breaks down the role-playing process into agent pre-training, multiple characters playing, and character incremental learning, effectively handling both seen and unseen roles. This dynamic approach, coupled with distinct LoRA blocks for each character, enhances Neeko's adaptability to unique attributes, personalities, and speaking patterns. As a result, Neeko demonstrates superior performance in MCRP over most existing methods, offering more engaging and versatile user interaction experiences. Code and data are available at https://github.com/weiyifan1023/Neeko.

------------

`[2402.13718] $\infty$Bench: Extending Long Context Evaluation Beyond 100K Tokens <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13718>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:30:29 GMT
    Xinrong Zhang and Yingfa Chen and Shengding Hu and Zihang Xu and Junhao Chen and Moo Khai Hao and Xu Han and Zhen Leng Thai and Shuo Wang and Zhiyuan Liu and Maosong Sun

Processing and reasoning over long contexts is crucial for many practical applications of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as document comprehension and agent construction. Despite recent strides in making LLMs process contexts with more than 100K tokens, there is currently a lack of a standardized benchmark to evaluate this long-context capability. Existing public benchmarks typically focus on contexts around 10K tokens, limiting the assessment and comparison of LLMs in processing longer contexts. In this paper, we propose $\infty$Bench, the first LLM benchmark featuring an average data length surpassing 100K tokens. $\infty$Bench comprises synthetic and realistic tasks spanning diverse domains, presented in both English and Chinese. The tasks in $\infty$Bench are designed to require well understanding of long dependencies in contexts, and make simply retrieving a limited number of passages from contexts not sufficient for these tasks. In our experiments, based on $\infty$Bench, we evaluate the state-of-the-art proprietary and open-source LLMs tailored for processing long contexts. The results indicate that existing long context LLMs still require significant advancements to effectively process 100K+ context. We further present three intriguing analyses regarding the behavior of LLMs processing long context.

------------

`[2402.13720] Ouroboros: Speculative Decoding with Large Model Enhanced Drafting <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13720>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:31:28 GMT
    Weilin Zhao, Yuxiang Huang, Xu Han, Chaojun Xiao, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

Drafting-then-verifying decoding methods such as speculative decoding are widely adopted training-free methods to accelerate the inference of large language models (LLMs). Instead of employing an autoregressive process to decode tokens sequentially, speculative decoding initially creates drafts with an efficient small model. Then LLMs are required to conduct verification and correction in a non-autoregressive fashion to minimize time overhead.
Generating longer drafts can lead to even more significant speedups once verified, but also incurs substantial trial and error costs if it fails.
Suffering from the high verification failure probability, existing decoding methods cannot draft too much content for verification at one time, achieving sub-optimal inference acceleration. In this paper, we introduce Ouroboros, which constructs a phrase candidate pool from the verification process of LLMs to provide candidates for draft generation of the small model. Thereby, Ouroboros can further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the initial drafts. The experimental results on typical text generation tasks show that Ouroboros achieves speedups of up to 1.9x and 2.8x compared to lookahead decoding and speculative decoding, respectively. The source code of Ouroboros is available at https://github.com/thunlp/Ouroboros.

------------

`[2402.13740] From Text to CQL: Bridging Natural Language and Corpus Search Engine <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13740>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:11:28 GMT
    Luming Lu, Jiyuan An, Yujie Wang, Liner yang, Cunliang Kong, Zhenghao Liu, Shuo Wang, Haozhe Lin, Mingwei Fang, Yaping Huang and Erhong Yang

Natural Language Processing (NLP) technologies have revolutionized the way we interact with information systems, with a significant focus on converting natural language queries into formal query languages such as SQL. However, less emphasis has been placed on the Corpus Query Language (CQL), a critical tool for linguistic research and detailed analysis within text corpora. The manual construction of CQL queries is a complex and time-intensive task that requires a great deal of expertise, which presents a notable challenge for both researchers and practitioners. This paper presents the first text-to-CQL task that aims to automate the translation of natural language into CQL. We present a comprehensive framework for this task, including a specifically curated large-scale dataset and methodologies leveraging large language models (LLMs) for effective text-to-CQL task. In addition, we established advanced evaluation metrics to assess the syntactic and semantic accuracy of the generated queries.
We created innovative LLM-based conversion approaches and detailed experiments.
The results demonstrate the efficacy of our methods and provide insights into the complexities of text-to-CQL task.

------------

`[2402.13741] Unlocking Instructive In-Context Learning with Tabular Prompting for Relational Triple Extraction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13741>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:12:16 GMT
    Guozheng Li, Wenjun Ke, Peng Wang, Zijie Xu, Ke Ji, Jiajun Liu, Ziyu Shang and Qiqing Luo

The in-context learning (ICL) for relational triple extraction (RTE) has achieved promising performance, but still encounters two key challenges: (1) how to design effective prompts and (2) how to select proper demonstrations.
Existing methods, however, fail to address these challenges appropriately. On the one hand, they usually recast RTE task to text-to-text prompting formats, which is unnatural and results in a mismatch between the output format at the pre-training time and the inference time for large language models (LLMs). On the other hand, they only utilize surface natural language features and lack consideration of triple semantics in sample selection. These issues are blocking improved performance in ICL for RTE, thus we aim to tackle prompt designing and sample selection challenges simultaneously. To this end, we devise a tabular prompting for RTE (\textsc{TableIE}) which frames RTE task into a table generation task to incorporate explicit structured information into ICL, facilitating conversion of outputs to RTE structures. Then we propose instructive in-context learning (I$^2$CL) which only selects and annotates a few samples considering internal triple semantics in massive unlabeled samples.

------------

`[2402.13753] LongRoPE: Extending LLM Context Window Beyond 2 Million Tokens <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13753>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:30:33 GMT
    Yiran Ding, Li Lyna Zhang, Chengruidong Zhang, Yuanyuan Xu, Ning Shang, Jiahang Xu, Fan Yang, Mao Yang

Large context window is a desirable feature in large language models (LLMs).
However, due to high fine-tuning costs, scarcity of long texts, and catastrophic values introduced by new token positions, current extended context windows are limited to around 128k tokens. This paper introduces LongRoPE that, for the first time, extends the context window of pre-trained LLMs to an impressive 2048k tokens, with up to only 1k fine-tuning steps at within 256k training lengths, while maintaining performance at the original short context window. This is achieved by three key innovations: (i) we identify and exploit two forms of non-uniformities in positional interpolation through an efficient search, providing a better initialization for fine-tuning and enabling an 8x extension in non-fine-tuning scenarios; (ii) we introduce a progressive extension strategy that first fine-tunes a 256k length LLM and then conducts a second positional interpolation on the fine-tuned extended LLM to achieve a 2048k context window; (iii) we readjust LongRoPE on 8k length to recover the short context window performance. Extensive experiments on LLaMA2 and Mistral across various tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Models extended via LongRoPE retain the original architecture with minor modifications to the positional embedding, and can reuse most pre-existing optimizations.

------------

`[2402.13758] Factual Consistency Evaluation of Summarisation in the Era of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13758>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:35:19 GMT
    Zheheng Luo, Qianqian Xie, Sophia Ananiadou

Factual inconsistency with source documents in automatically generated summaries can lead to misinformation or pose risks. Existing factual consistency(FC) metrics are constrained by their performance, efficiency, and explainability. Recent advances in Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in text evaluation but their effectiveness in assessing FC in summarisation remains underexplored. Prior research has mostly focused on proprietary LLMs, leaving essential factors that affect their assessment capabilities unexplored. Additionally, current FC evaluation benchmarks are restricted to news articles, casting doubt on the generality of the FC methods tested on them. In this paper, we first address the gap by introducing TreatFact a dataset of LLM-generated summaries of clinical texts, annotated for FC by domain experts. Moreover, we benchmark 11 LLMs for FC evaluation across news and clinical domains and analyse the impact of model size, prompts, pre-training and fine-tuning data. Our findings reveal that despite proprietary models prevailing on the task, open-source LLMs lag behind.
Nevertheless, there is potential for enhancing the performance of open-source LLMs through increasing model size, expanding pre-training data, and developing well-curated fine-tuning data. Experiments on TreatFact suggest that both previous methods and LLM-based evaluators are unable to capture factual inconsistencies in clinical summaries, posing a new challenge for FC evaluation.

------------

`[2402.13764] CriticBench: Evaluating Large Language Models as Critic <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13764>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:38:59 GMT
    Tian Lan, Wenwei Zhang, Chen Xu, Heyan Huang, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen, Xian-ling Mao

Critique ability are crucial in the scalable oversight and self-improvement of Large Language Models (LLMs). While many recent studies explore the critique ability of LLMs to judge and refine flaws in generations, how to comprehensively and reliably measure the critique abilities of LLMs is under-explored. This paper introduces \shortname, a novel benchmark designed to comprehensively and reliably evaluate four key critique ability dimensions of LLMs: feedback, comparison, refinement and meta-feedback.
\shortname~encompasses nine diverse tasks, each assessing the LLMs' ability to critique responses at varying levels of quality granularity. Our extensive evaluations of open-source and closed-source LLMs reveal intriguing relationships between the critique ability and tasks, response qualities, and model scales. Datasets, resources and evaluation toolkit for \shortname~will be publicly released at \url{https://github.com/gmftbyGMFTBY/CriticBench}.

------------

`[2402.13866] Kuaiji: the First Chinese Accounting Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13866>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:14:20 GMT
    Jiayuan Luo, Songhua Yang, Xiaoling Qiu, Panyu Chen, Yufei Nai, Wenxuan Zeng, Wentao Zhang, Xinke Jiang

Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and GPT-4 have demonstrated impressive proficiency in comprehending and generating natural language.
However, they encounter difficulties when tasked with adapting to specialized domains such as accounting. To address this challenge, we introduce Kuaiji, a tailored Accounting Large Language Model. Kuaiji is meticulously fine-tuned using the Baichuan framework, which encompasses continuous pre-training and supervised fine-tuning processes. Supported by CAtAcctQA, a dataset containing large genuine accountant-client dialogues, Kuaiji exhibits exceptional accuracy and response speed. Our contributions encompass the creation of the first Chinese accounting dataset, the establishment of Kuaiji as a leading open-source Chinese accounting LLM, and the validation of its efficacy through real-world accounting scenarios.

------------

`[2402.13874] $\texttt{Se}^2$: $\textit{Se}$quential Example $\textit{Se}$lection for In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13874>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:35:04 GMT
    Haoyu Liu, Jianfeng Liu, Shaohan Huang, Yuefeng Zhan, Hao Sun, Weiwei Deng, Furu Wei, Qi Zhang

The remarkable capability of large language models (LLMs) for in-context learning (ICL) needs to be activated by demonstration examples. Prior work has extensively explored the selection of examples for ICL, predominantly following the "select then organize" paradigm, such approaches often neglect the internal relationships between examples and exist an inconsistency between the training and inference. In this paper, we formulate the problem as a $\textit{se}$quential $\textit{se}$lection problem and introduce $\texttt{Se}^2$, a sequential-aware method that leverages the LLM's feedback on varying context, aiding in capturing inter-relationships and sequential information among examples, significantly enriching the contextuality and relevance of ICL prompts. Meanwhile, we utilize beam search to seek and construct example sequences, enhancing both quality and diversity. Extensive experiments across 23 NLP tasks from 8 distinct categories illustrate that $\texttt{Se}^2$ markedly surpasses competitive baselines and achieves 42% relative improvement over random selection. Further in-depth analysis show the effectiveness of proposed strategies, highlighting $\texttt{Se}^2$'s exceptional stability and adaptability across various scenarios. Our code will be released to facilitate future research.

------------

`[2402.13887] Beyond Probabilities: Unveiling the Misalignment in Evaluating Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13887>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:58:37 GMT
    Chenyang Lyu, Minghao Wu, Alham Fikri Aji

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across various applications, fundamentally reshaping the landscape of natural language processing (NLP) research. However, recent evaluation frameworks often rely on the output probabilities of LLMs for predictions, primarily due to computational constraints, diverging from real-world LLM usage scenarios. While widely employed, the efficacy of these probability-based evaluation strategies remains an open research question. This study aims to scrutinize the validity of such probability-based evaluation methods within the context of using LLMs for Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs), highlighting their inherent limitations.
Our empirical investigation reveals that the prevalent probability-based evaluation method inadequately aligns with generation-based prediction.
Furthermore, current evaluation frameworks typically assess LLMs through predictive tasks based on output probabilities rather than directly generating responses, owing to computational limitations. We illustrate that these probability-based approaches do not effectively correspond with generative predictions. The outcomes of our study can enhance the understanding of LLM evaluation methodologies and provide insights for future research in this domain.

------------

`[2402.13904] Calibrating Large Language Models with Sample Consistency <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13904>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:15:20 GMT
    Qing Lyu, Kumar Shridhar, Chaitanya Malaviya, Li Zhang, Yanai Elazar, Niket Tandon, Marianna Apidianaki, Mrinmaya Sachan, Chris Callison-Burch

Accurately gauging the confidence level of Large Language Models' (LLMs) predictions is pivotal for their reliable application. However, LLMs are often uncalibrated inherently and elude conventional calibration techniques due to their proprietary nature and massive scale. In this work, we explore the potential of deriving confidence from the distribution of multiple randomly sampled model generations, via three measures of consistency. We perform an extensive evaluation across various open and closed-source models on nine reasoning datasets. Results show that consistency-based calibration methods outperform existing post-hoc approaches. Meanwhile, we find that factors such as intermediate explanations, model scaling, and larger sample sizes enhance calibration, while instruction-tuning makes calibration more difficult.
Moreover, confidence scores obtained from consistency have the potential to enhance model performance. Finally, we offer practical guidance on choosing suitable consistency metrics for calibration, tailored to the characteristics of various LMs.

------------

`[2402.13917] What Linguistic Features and Languages are Important in LLM Translation? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13917>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:32:38 GMT
    Ryandito Diandaru, Lucky Susanto, Zilu Tang, Ayu Purwarianti, Derry Wijaya

Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate strong capability across multiple tasks, including machine translation. Our study focuses on evaluating Llama2's machine translation capabilities and exploring how translation depends on languages in its training data. Our experiments show that the 7B Llama2 model yields above 10 BLEU score for all languages it has seen, but not always for languages it has not seen. Most gains for those unseen languages are observed the most with the model scale compared to using chat versions or adding shot count. Furthermore, our linguistic distance analysis reveals that syntactic similarity is not always the primary linguistic factor in determining translation quality. Interestingly, we discovered that under specific circumstances, some languages, despite having significantly less training data than English, exhibit strong correlations comparable to English. Our discoveries here give new perspectives for the current landscape of LLMs, raising the possibility that LLMs centered around languages other than English may offer a more effective foundation for a multilingual model.

------------

`[2402.13919] SYNFAC-EDIT: Synthetic Imitation Edit Feedback for Factual Alignment in Clinical Summarization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13919>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:33:22 GMT
    Prakamya Mishra, Zonghai Yao, Parth Vashisht, Feiyun Ouyang, Beining Wang, Vidhi Dhaval Mody, Hong Yu

Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT and Llama have demonstrated significant achievements in summarization tasks but struggle with factual inaccuracies, a critical issue in clinical NLP applications where errors could lead to serious consequences. To counter the high costs and limited availability of expert-annotated data for factual alignment, this study introduces an innovative pipeline that utilizes GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 to generate high-quality feedback aimed at enhancing factual consistency in clinical note summarization. Our research primarily focuses on edit feedback, mirroring the practical scenario in which medical professionals refine AI system outputs without the need for additional annotations. Despite GPT's proven expertise in various clinical NLP tasks, such as the Medical Licensing Examination, there is scant research on its capacity to deliver expert-level edit feedback for improving weaker LMs or LLMs generation quality. This work leverages GPT's advanced capabilities in clinical NLP to offer expert-level edit feedback.
Through the use of two distinct alignment algorithms (DPO and SALT) based on GPT edit feedback, our goal is to reduce hallucinations and align closely with medical facts, endeavoring to narrow the divide between AI-generated content and factual accuracy. This highlights the substantial potential of GPT edits in enhancing the alignment of clinical factuality.

------------

`[2402.13926] Large Language Models are Vulnerable to Bait-and-Switch Attacks for Generating Harmful Content <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13926>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:46:36 GMT
    Federico Bianchi, James Zou

The risks derived from large language models (LLMs) generating deceptive and damaging content have been the subject of considerable research, but even safe generations can lead to problematic downstream impacts. In our study, we shift the focus to how even safe text coming from LLMs can be easily turned into potentially dangerous content through Bait-and-Switch attacks. In such attacks, the user first prompts LLMs with safe questions and then employs a simple find-and-replace post-hoc technique to manipulate the outputs into harmful narratives. The alarming efficacy of this approach in generating toxic content highlights a significant challenge in developing reliable safety guardrails for LLMs. In particular, we stress that focusing on the safety of the verbatim LLM outputs is insufficient and that we also need to consider post-hoc transformations.

------------

`[2402.13950] Making Reasoning Matter: Measuring and Improving Faithfulness of Chain-of-Thought Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13950>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:23:59 GMT
    Debjit Paul, Robert West, Antoine Bosselut and Boi Faltings

Large language models (LLMs) have been shown to perform better when asked to reason step-by-step before answering a question. However, it is unclear to what degree the model's final answer is faithful to the stated reasoning steps. In this paper, we perform a causal mediation analysis on twelve LLMs to examine how intermediate reasoning steps generated by the LLM influence the final outcome and find that LLMs do not reliably use their intermediate reasoning steps when generating an answer. To address this issue, we introduce FRODO, a framework to tailor small-sized LMs to generate correct reasoning steps and robustly reason over these steps. FRODO consists of an inference module that learns to generate correct reasoning steps using an implicit causal reward function and a reasoning module that learns to faithfully reason over these intermediate inferences using a counterfactual and causal preference objective.
Our experiments show that FRODO significantly outperforms four competitive baselines. Furthermore, FRODO improves the robustness and generalization ability of the reasoning LM, yielding higher performance on out-of-distribution test sets. Finally, we find that FRODO's rationales are more faithful to its final answer predictions than standard supervised fine-tuning.

------------

`[2402.13963] Towards Building Multilingual Language Model for Medicine <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13963>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:47:20 GMT
    Pengcheng Qiu, Chaoyi Wu, Xiaoman Zhang, Weixiong Lin, Haicheng Wang, Ya Zhang, Yanfeng Wang, Weidi Xie

In this paper, we aim to develop an open-source, multilingual language model for medicine, that the benefits a wider, linguistically diverse audience from different regions. In general, we present the contribution from the following aspects: first, for multilingual medical-specific adaptation, we construct a new multilingual medical corpus, that contains approximately 25.5B tokens encompassing 6 main languages, termed as MMedC, that enables auto-regressive training for existing general LLMs. second, to monitor the development of multilingual LLMs in medicine, we propose a new multilingual medical multi-choice question-answering benchmark with rationale, termed as MMedBench; third, we have assessed a number of popular, opensource large language models (LLMs) on our benchmark, along with those further auto-regressive trained on MMedC, as a result, our final model, termed as MMedLM 2, with only 7B parameters, achieves superior performance compared to all other open-source models, even rivaling GPT-4 on MMedBench. We will make the resources publicly available, including code, model weights, and datasets.

------------

`[2402.14002] Hallucinations or Attention Misdirection? The Path to Strategic Value Extraction in Business Using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14002>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:40:24 GMT
    Aline Ioste

Large Language Models with transformer architecture have revolutionized the domain of text generation, setting unprecedented benchmarks. Despite their impressive capabilities, LLMs have been criticized for generating outcomes that deviate from factual accuracy or display logical inconsistencies, phenomena commonly referred to as hallucinations. This term, however, has often been misapplied to any results deviating from the instructor's expectations, which this paper defines as attention misdirection rather than true hallucinations.
Understanding the distinction between hallucinations and attention misdirection becomes increasingly relevant in business contexts, where the ramifications of such errors can significantly impact the value extraction from these inherently pre-trained models. This paper highlights the best practices of the PGI, Persona, Grouping, and Intelligence, method, a strategic framework that achieved a remarkable error rate of only 3,15 percent across 4,000 responses generated by GPT in response to a real business challenge. It emphasizes that by equipping experimentation with knowledge, businesses can unlock opportunities for innovation through the use of these natively pre-trained models. This reinforces the notion that strategic application grounded in a skilled team can maximize the benefits of emergent technologies such as the LLMs.

------------

`[2402.14007] Can Watermarks Survive Translation? On the Cross-lingual Consistency of Text Watermark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14007>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:48:38 GMT
    Zhiwei He, Binglin Zhou, Hongkun Hao, Aiwei Liu, Xing Wang, Zhaopeng Tu, Zhuosheng Zhang, Rui Wang

Text watermarking technology aims to tag and identify content produced by large language models (LLMs) to prevent misuse. In this study, we introduce the concept of ''cross-lingual consistency'' in text watermarking, which assesses the ability of text watermarks to maintain their effectiveness after being translated into other languages. Preliminary empirical results from two LLMs and three watermarking methods reveal that current text watermarking technologies lack consistency when texts are translated into various languages.
Based on this observation, we propose a Cross-lingual Watermark Removal Attack (CWRA) to bypass watermarking by first obtaining a response from an LLM in a pivot language, which is then translated into the target language. CWRA can effectively remove watermarks by reducing the Area Under the Curve (AUC) from 0.95 to 0.67 without performance loss. Furthermore, we analyze two key factors that contribute to the cross-lingual consistency in text watermarking and propose a defense method that increases the AUC from 0.67 to 0.88 under CWRA.

------------

`[2402.14008] OlympiadBench: A Challenging Benchmark for Promoting AGI with Olympiad-Level Bilingual Multimodal Scientific Problems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14008>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:49:26 GMT
    Chaoqun He, Renjie Luo, Yuzhuo Bai, Shengding Hu, Zhen Leng Thai, Junhao Shen, Jinyi Hu, Xu Han, Yujie Huang, Yuxiang Zhang, Jie Liu, Lei Qi, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

Recent advancements have seen Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) surpassing general human capabilities in various tasks, approaching the proficiency level of human experts across multiple domains. With traditional benchmarks becoming less challenging for these models, new rigorous challenges are essential to gauge their advanced abilities. In this work, we present OlympiadBench, an Olympiad-level bilingual multimodal scientific benchmark, featuring 8,952 problems from Olympiad-level mathematics and physics competitions, including the Chinese college entrance exam. Each problem is detailed with expert-level annotations for step-by-step reasoning. Evaluating top-tier models on OlympiadBench, we implement a comprehensive assessment methodology to accurately evaluate model responses.
Notably, the best-performing model, GPT-4V, attains an average score of 17.23% on OlympiadBench, with a mere 11.28% in physics, highlighting the benchmark rigor and the intricacy of physical reasoning. Our analysis orienting GPT-4V points out prevalent issues with hallucinations, knowledge omissions, and logical fallacies. We hope that our challenging benchmark can serve as a valuable resource for helping future AGI research endeavors.

------------

`[2402.14016] Is LLM-as-a-Judge Robust? Investigating Universal Adversarial Attacks on Zero-shot LLM Assessment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14016>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:55:20 GMT
    Vyas Raina, Adian Liusie, Mark Gales

Large Language Models (LLMs) are powerful zero-shot assessors and are increasingly used in real-world situations such as for written exams or benchmarking systems. Despite this, no existing work has analyzed the vulnerability of judge-LLMs against adversaries attempting to manipulate outputs. This work presents the first study on the adversarial robustness of assessment LLMs, where we search for short universal phrases that when appended to texts can deceive LLMs to provide high assessment scores. Experiments on SummEval and TopicalChat demonstrate that both LLM-scoring and pairwise LLM-comparative assessment are vulnerable to simple concatenation attacks, where in particular LLM-scoring is very susceptible and can yield maximum assessment scores irrespective of the input text quality. Interestingly, such attacks are transferable and phrases learned on smaller open-source LLMs can be applied to larger closed-source models, such as GPT3.5. This highlights the pervasive nature of the adversarial vulnerabilities across different judge-LLM sizes, families and methods. Our findings raise significant concerns on the reliability of LLMs-as-a-judge methods, and underscore the importance of addressing vulnerabilities in LLM assessment methods before deployment in high-stakes real-world scenarios.

------------

`[2402.13414] Harnessing Large Language Models as Post-hoc Correctors <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13414>`__

::

    Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:50:41 GMT
    Zhiqiang Zhong and Kuangyu Zhou and Davide Mottin

As Machine Learning (ML) models grow in size and demand higher-quality training data, the expenses associated with re-training and fine-tuning these models are escalating rapidly. Inspired by recent impressive achievements of Large Language Models (LLMs) in different fields, this paper delves into the question: can LLMs efficiently improve an ML's performance at a minimal cost? We show that, through our proposed training-free framework LlmCorr, an LLM can work as a post-hoc corrector to propose corrections for the predictions of an arbitrary ML model. In particular, we form a contextual knowledge database by incorporating the dataset's label information and the ML model's predictions on the validation dataset. Leveraging the in-context learning capability of LLMs, we ask the LLM to summarise the instances in which the ML model makes mistakes and the correlation between primary predictions and true labels. Following this, the LLM can transfer its acquired knowledge to suggest corrections for the ML model's predictions. Our experimental results on the challenging molecular predictions show that LlmCorr improves the performance of a number of models by up to 39%.

------------

`[2402.13459] Learning to Poison Large Language Models During Instruction Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13459>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 01:30:03 GMT
    Yao Qiang and Xiangyu Zhou and Saleh Zare Zade and Mohammad Amin Roshani and Douglas Zytko and Dongxiao Zhu

The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has marked significant achievements in language processing and reasoning capabilities. Despite their advancements, LLMs face vulnerabilities to data poisoning attacks, where adversaries insert backdoor triggers into training data to manipulate outputs for malicious purposes. This work further identifies additional security risks in LLMs by designing a new data poisoning attack tailored to exploit the instruction tuning process. We propose a novel gradient-guided backdoor trigger learning approach to identify adversarial triggers efficiently, ensuring an evasion of detection by conventional defenses while maintaining content integrity. Through experimental validation across various LLMs and tasks, our strategy demonstrates a high success rate in compromising model outputs; poisoning only 1\% of 4,000 instruction tuning samples leads to a Performance Drop Rate (PDR) of around 80\%. Our work highlights the need for stronger defenses against data poisoning attack, offering insights into safeguarding LLMs against these more sophisticated attacks. The source code can be found on this GitHub repository: https://github.com/RookieZxy/GBTL/blob/main/README.md.

------------

`[2402.13468] STENCIL: Submodular Mutual Information Based Weak Supervision for Cold-Start Active Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13468>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 01:54:58 GMT
    Nathan Beck, Adithya Iyer, Rishabh Iyer

As supervised fine-tuning of pre-trained models within NLP applications increases in popularity, larger corpora of annotated data are required, especially with increasing parameter counts in large language models. Active learning, which attempts to mine and annotate unlabeled instances to improve model performance maximally fast, is a common choice for reducing the annotation cost; however, most methods typically ignore class imbalance and either assume access to initial annotated data or require multiple rounds of active learning selection before improving rare classes. We present STENCIL, which utilizes a set of text exemplars and the recently proposed submodular mutual information to select a set of weakly labeled rare-class instances that are then strongly labeled by an annotator. We show that STENCIL improves overall accuracy by $10\%-24\%$ and rare-class F-1 score by $17\%-40\%$ on multiple text classification datasets over common active learning methods within the class-imbalanced cold-start setting.

------------

`[2402.13485] ProPD: Dynamic Token Tree Pruning and Generation for LLM Parallel Decoding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13485>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:51:07 GMT
    Shuzhang Zhong, Zebin Yang, Meng Li, Ruihao Gong, Runsheng Wang, Ru Huang

Recent advancements in generative large language models (LLMs) have significantly boosted the performance in natural language processing tasks.
However, their efficiency is hampered by the inherent limitations in autoregressive token generation. While parallel decoding with token tree verification, e.g., Medusa, has been proposed to improve decoding parallelism and efficiency, it often struggles with maintaining contextual relationships due to its independent token prediction approach and incurs significant verification overhead, especially with large tree sizes and batch processing.
In this paper, we propose ProPD, an efficient LLM parallel decoding framework based on dynamic token tree pruning and generation. ProPD features an advanced early pruning mechanism to efficiently eliminate unpromising token sequences to improve verification efficiency. Additionally, it introduces a dynamic token tree generation algorithm to balance the computation and parallelism of the verification phase in real-time and maximize the overall efficiency across different batch sizes, sequence lengths, and tasks, etc. We verify ProPD across a diverse set of datasets, LLMs, and batch sizes and demonstrate ProPD consistently outperforms existing decoding algorithms by 1.1-3.2x.

------------

`[2402.13512] From Self-Attention to Markov Models: Unveiling the Dynamics of Generative Transformers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13512>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:51:34 GMT
    M. Emrullah Ildiz, Yixiao Huang, Yingcong Li, Ankit Singh Rawat and Samet Oymak

Modern language models rely on the transformer architecture and attention mechanism to perform language understanding and text generation. In this work, we study learning a 1-layer self-attention model from a set of prompts and associated output data sampled from the model. We first establish a precise mapping between the self-attention mechanism and Markov models: Inputting a prompt to the model samples the output token according to a context-conditioned Markov chain (CCMC) which weights the transition matrix of a base Markov chain.
Additionally, incorporating positional encoding results in position-dependent scaling of the transition probabilities. Building on this formalism, we develop identifiability/coverage conditions for the prompt distribution that guarantee consistent estimation and establish sample complexity guarantees under IID samples. Finally, we study the problem of learning from a single output trajectory generated from an initial prompt. We characterize an intriguing winner-takes-all phenomenon where the generative process implemented by self-attention collapses into sampling a limited subset of tokens due to its non-mixing nature. This provides a mathematical explanation to the tendency of modern LLMs to generate repetitive text. In summary, the equivalence to CCMC provides a simple but powerful framework to study self-attention and its properties.

------------

`[2402.13516] ProSparse: Introducing and Enhancing Intrinsic Activation Sparsity within Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13516>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:58:49 GMT
    Chenyang Song, Xu Han, Zhengyan Zhang, Shengding Hu, Xiyu Shi, Kuai Li, Chen Chen, Zhiyuan Liu, Guangli Li, Tao Yang, Maosong Sun

Activation sparsity refers to the existence of considerable weakly-contributed elements among activation outputs. As a prevalent property of the models using the ReLU activation function, it has been proven a promising paradigm to boost model inference efficiency. Nevertheless, most large language models (LLMs) adopt activation functions without intrinsic activation sparsity (e.g., GELU and Swish). Some recent efforts have explored introducing ReLU or its variants as the substitutive activation function to help LLMs achieve activation sparsity and inference acceleration, but few can simultaneously obtain high sparsity and comparable model performance. This paper introduces an effective sparsification method named "ProSparse" to push LLMs for higher activation sparsity without decreasing model performance.
Specifically, after substituting the activation function of LLMs with ReLU, ProSparse adopts progressive sparsity regularization with a factor smoothly increasing along sine curves in multiple stages. This can enhance activation sparsity and alleviate performance degradation by avoiding radical shifts in activation distribution. With ProSparse, we obtain high sparsity of 89.32% and 88.80% for LLaMA2-7B and LLaMA2-13B, respectively, achieving comparable performance to their original Swish-activated versions. Our inference acceleration experiments further demonstrate the practical acceleration brought by higher activation sparsity.

------------

`[2402.13533] FinGPT-HPC: Efficient Pretraining and Finetuning Large Language Models for Financial Applications with High-Performance Computing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13533>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:03:17 GMT
    Xiao-Yang Liu, Jie Zhang, Guoxuan Wang, Weiqing Tong, and Anwar Walid

Large language models (LLMs) are computationally intensive. The computation workload and the memory footprint grow quadratically with the dimension (layer width). Most of LLMs' parameters come from the linear layers of the transformer structure and are highly redundant. These linear layers contribute more than 80% of the computation workload and 99% of the model size. To pretrain and finetune LLMs efficiently, there are three major challenges to address: 1) reducing redundancy of the linear layers; 2) reducing GPU memory footprint; 3) improving GPU utilization when using distributed training. Prior methods, such as LoRA and QLoRA, utilized low-rank matrices and quantization to reduce the number of trainable parameters and model size, respectively. However, the resulting model still consumes a large amount of GPU memory. In this paper, we present high-performance GPU-based methods that exploit low-rank structures to pretrain and finetune LLMs for financial applications. We replace one conventional linear layer of the transformer structure with two narrower linear layers, which allows us to reduce the number of parameters by several orders of magnitude. By quantizing the parameters into low precision (8-bit and 4-bit), the memory consumption of the resulting model is further reduced. Compared with existing LLMs, our methods achieve a speedup of 1.3X and a model compression ratio of 2.64X for pretaining without accuracy drop. For finetuning, our methods achieve an average accuracy increase of 6.3% and 24.0% in general tasks and financial tasks, respectively, and GPU memory consumption ratio of 6.3X.
The sizes of our models are smaller than 0.59 GB, allowing inference on a smartphone.

------------

`[2402.13630] UniGraph: Learning a Cross-Domain Graph Foundation Model From Natural Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13630>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:06:31 GMT
    Yufei He, Bryan Hooi

Foundation models like ChatGPT and GPT-4 have revolutionized artificial intelligence, exhibiting remarkable abilities to generalize across a wide array of tasks and applications beyond their initial training objectives. However, when this concept is applied to graph learning, a stark contrast emerges. Graph learning has predominantly focused on single-graph models, tailored to specific tasks or datasets, lacking the ability to transfer learned knowledge to different domains. This limitation stems from the inherent complexity and diversity of graph structures, along with the different feature and label spaces specific to graph data. In this paper, we present our UniGraph framework, designed to train a graph foundation model capable of generalizing to unseen graphs and tasks across diverse domains. Unlike single-graph models that use pre-computed node features of varying dimensions as input, our approach leverages Text-Attributed Graphs (TAGs) for unifying node representations. We propose a cascaded architecture of Language Models (LMs) and Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) as backbone networks with a self-supervised training objective based on Masked Graph Modeling (MGM). We introduce graph instruction tuning using Large Language Models (LLMs) to enable zero-shot prediction ability. Our comprehensive experiments across various graph learning tasks and domains demonstrate the model's effectiveness in self-supervised representation learning on unseen graphs, few-shot in-context transfer, and zero-shot transfer, even surpassing or matching the performance of GNNs that have undergone supervised training on target datasets.

------------

`[2402.13653] PQA: Zero-shot Protein Question Answering for Free-form Scientific Enquiry with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13653>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:38:17 GMT
    Eli M Carrami and Sahand Sharifzadeh

We introduce the novel task of zero-shot Protein Question Answering (PQA) for free-form scientific enquiry. Given a previously unseen protein sequence and a natural language question, the task is to deliver a scientifically accurate answer. This task not only supports future biological research, but could also provide a test bed for assessing the scientific precision of large language models (LLMs). We contribute the first specialized dataset for PQA model training, containing 257K protein sequences annotated with 1.97M scientific question-answer pairs. Additionally, we propose and study several novel biologically relevant benchmarks for scientific PQA. Employing two robust multi-modal architectures, we establish an initial state-of-the-art performance for PQA and reveal key performance factors through ablation studies. Our comprehensive PQA framework, named Pika, including dataset, code, model checkpoints, and a user-friendly demo, is openly accessible on github.com/EMCarrami/Pika, promoting wider research and application in the field.

------------

`[2402.13871] An Explainable Transformer-based Model for Phishing Email Detection: A Large Language Model Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13871>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:23:21 GMT
    Mohammad Amaz Uddin and Iqbal H. Sarker

Phishing email is a serious cyber threat that tries to deceive users by sending false emails with the intention of stealing confidential information or causing financial harm. Attackers, often posing as trustworthy entities, exploit technological advancements and sophistication to make detection and prevention of phishing more challenging. Despite extensive academic research, phishing detection remains an ongoing and formidable challenge in the cybersecurity landscape. Large Language Models (LLMs) and Masked Language Models (MLMs) possess immense potential to offer innovative solutions to address long-standing challenges. In this research paper, we present an optimized, fine-tuned transformer-based DistilBERT model designed for the detection of phishing emails. In the detection process, we work with a phishing email dataset and utilize the preprocessing techniques to clean and solve the imbalance class issues. Through our experiments, we found that our model effectively achieves high accuracy, demonstrating its capability to perform well. Finally, we demonstrate our fine-tuned model using Explainable-AI (XAI) techniques such as Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic Explanations (LIME) and Transformer Interpret to explain how our model makes predictions in the context of text classification for phishing emails.

------------

`[2402.14020] Coercing LLMs to do and reveal (almost) anything <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14020>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:59:13 GMT
    Jonas Geiping, Alex Stein, Manli Shu, Khalid Saifullah, Yuxin Wen and Tom Goldstein

It has recently been shown that adversarial attacks on large language models (LLMs) can "jailbreak" the model into making harmful statements. In this work, we argue that the spectrum of adversarial attacks on LLMs is much larger than merely jailbreaking. We provide a broad overview of possible attack surfaces and attack goals. Based on a series of concrete examples, we discuss, categorize and systematize attacks that coerce varied unintended behaviors, such as misdirection, model control, denial-of-service, or data extraction.
We analyze these attacks in controlled experiments, and find that many of them stem from the practice of pre-training LLMs with coding capabilities, as well as the continued existence of strange "glitch" tokens in common LLM vocabularies that should be removed for security reasons.

------------

`[2402.13276] When LLMs Meets Acoustic Landmarks: An Efficient Approach to Integrate Speech into Large Language Models for Depression Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13276>`__

::

    Sat, 17 Feb 2024 09:39:46 GMT
    Xiangyu Zhang, Hexin Liu, Kaishuai Xu, Qiquan Zhang, Daijiao Liu, Beena Ahmed, Julien Epps

Depression is a critical concern in global mental health, prompting extensive research into AI-based detection methods. Among various AI technologies, Large Language Models (LLMs) stand out for their versatility in mental healthcare applications. However, their primary limitation arises from their exclusive dependence on textual input, which constrains their overall capabilities.
Furthermore, the utilization of LLMs in identifying and analyzing depressive states is still relatively untapped. In this paper, we present an innovative approach to integrating acoustic speech information into the LLMs framework for multimodal depression detection. We investigate an efficient method for depression detection by integrating speech signals into LLMs utilizing Acoustic Landmarks. By incorporating acoustic landmarks, which are specific to the pronunciation of spoken words, our method adds critical dimensions to text transcripts. This integration also provides insights into the unique speech patterns of individuals, revealing the potential mental states of individuals.
Evaluations of the proposed approach on the DAIC-WOZ dataset reveal state-of-the-art results when compared with existing Audio-Text baselines. In addition, this approach is not only valuable for the detection of depression but also represents a new perspective in enhancing the ability of LLMs to comprehend and process speech signals.

------------

`[2402.13284] Structure Guided Large Language Model for SQL Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13284>`__

::

    Mon, 19 Feb 2024 09:07:59 GMT
    Qinggang Zhang, Junnan Dong, Hao Chen, Wentao Li, Feiran Huang, Xiao Huang

Generating accurate Structured Querying Language (SQL) is a long-standing problem, especially in matching users' semantic queries with structured databases and then generating structured SQL. Existing models typically input queries and database schemas into the LLM and rely on the LLM to perform semantic-structure matching and generate structured SQL. However, such solutions overlook the structural information within user queries and databases, which can be utilized to enhance the generation of structured SQL.
This oversight can lead to inaccurate or unexecutable SQL generation. To fully exploit the structure, we propose a structure-to-SQL framework, which leverages the inherent structure information to improve the SQL generation of LLMs.
Specifically, we introduce our Structure Guided SQL~(SGU-SQL) generation model.
SGU-SQL first links user queries and databases in a structure-enhanced manner.
It then decomposes complicated linked structures with grammar trees to guide the LLM to generate the SQL step by step. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets illustrate that SGU-SQL can outperform sixteen SQL generation baselines.

------------

`[2402.13457] LLM Jailbreak Attack versus Defense Techniques -- A Comprehensive Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13457>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 01:26:39 GMT
    Zihao Xu, Yi Liu, Gelei Deng, Yuekang Li, Stjepan Picek

Large Language Models (LLMS) have increasingly become central to generating content with potential societal impacts. Notably, these models have demonstrated capabilities for generating content that could be deemed harmful.
To mitigate these risks, researchers have adopted safety training techniques to align model outputs with societal values to curb the generation of malicious content. However, the phenomenon of "jailbreaking", where carefully crafted prompts elicit harmful responses from models, persists as a significant challenge. This research conducts a comprehensive analysis of existing studies on jailbreaking LLMs and their defense techniques. We meticulously investigate nine attack techniques and seven defense techniques applied across three distinct language models: Vicuna, LLama, and GPT-3.5 Turbo. We aim to evaluate the effectiveness of these attack and defense techniques. Our findings reveal that existing white-box attacks underperform compared to universal techniques and that including special tokens in the input significantly affects the likelihood of successful attacks. This research highlights the need to concentrate on the security facets of LLMs. Additionally, we contribute to the field by releasing our datasets and testing framework, aiming to foster further research into LLM security. We believe these contributions will facilitate the exploration of security measures within this domain.

------------

`[2402.13521] Test-Driven Development for Code Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13521>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:10:12 GMT
    Noble Saji Mathews and Meiyappan Nagappan

Large language models (LLMs) like GPT4, have shown proficiency in generating code snippets from problem statements. Traditionally software development by humans followed a similar methodology of writing code from problem statements or requirements. However, in the past, there have been several studies that have shown the value of test-driven development (TDD) where humans write tests based on problem statements before the code for the functionality is written.
In the context of LLM-based code generation, one obvious benefit of TDD is that the developer then knows for sure if the generated code has passed all the given tests or not. Therefore, in this paper, we want to empirically evaluate the hypothesis: giving the problem statements and tests as input to GPT4 is better than just giving the problem statement as input. To test our hypothesis, we build a framework TGen. In our experiments on the MBPP, HumanEval and CodeChef datasets, we consistently find that including tests solves more programming problems than not including them. Thus we show that TDD is a better development model than just using a problem statement when using GPT4 for code generation tasks.

------------

`[2402.13602] Hybrid Reasoning Based on Large Language Models for Autonomous Car Driving <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13602>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:09:05 GMT
    Mehdi Azarafza, Mojtaba Nayyeri, Charles Steinmetz, Steffen Staab, Achim Rettberg

Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered significant attention for their ability to understand text and images, generate human-like text, and perform complex reasoning tasks. However, their ability to generalize this advanced reasoning with a combination of natural language text for decision-making in dynamic situations requires further exploration. In this study, we investigate how well LLMs can adapt and apply a combination of arithmetic and common-sense reasoning, particularly in autonomous driving scenarios. We hypothesize that LLMs hybrid reasoning abilities can improve autonomous driving by enabling them to analyze detected object and sensor data, understand driving regulations and physical laws, and offer additional context. This addresses complex scenarios, like decisions in low visibility (due to weather conditions), where traditional methods might fall short. We evaluated Large Language Models (LLMs) based on accuracy by comparing their answers with human-generated ground truth inside CARLA. The results showed that when a combination of images (detected objects) and sensor data is fed into the LLM, it can offer precise information for brake and throttle control in autonomous vehicles across various weather conditions.
This formulation and answers can assist in decision-making for auto-pilot systems.

------------

`[2402.13714] An Evaluation of Large Language Models in Bioinformatics Research <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13714>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:27:31 GMT
    Hengchuang Yin, Zhonghui Gu, Fanhao Wang, Yiparemu Abuduhaibaier, Yanqiao Zhu, Xinming Tu, Xian-Sheng Hua, Xiao Luo, Yizhou Sun

Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have gained considerable interest across diverse research communities. Their notable ability for text completion and generation has inaugurated a novel paradigm for language-interfaced problem solving. However, the potential and efficacy of these models in bioinformatics remain incompletely explored. In this work, we study the performance LLMs on a wide spectrum of crucial bioinformatics tasks.
These tasks include the identification of potential coding regions, extraction of named entities for genes and proteins, detection of antimicrobial and anti-cancer peptides, molecular optimization, and resolution of educational bioinformatics problems. Our findings indicate that, given appropriate prompts, LLMs like GPT variants can successfully handle most of these tasks. In addition, we provide a thorough analysis of their limitations in the context of complicated bioinformatics tasks. In conclusion, we believe that this work can provide new perspectives and motivate future research in the field of LLMs applications, AI for Science and bioinformatics.

------------

`[2402.13750] Breaking the Barrier: Utilizing Large Language Models for Industrial Recommendation Systems through an Inferential Knowledge Graph <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13750>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:22:01 GMT
    Qian Zhao, Hao Qian, Ziqi Liu, Gong-Duo Zhang and Lihong Gu

Recommendation systems are widely used in e-commerce websites and online platforms to address information overload. However, existing systems primarily rely on historical data and user feedback, making it difficult to capture user intent transitions. Recently, Knowledge Base (KB)-based models are proposed to incorporate expert knowledge, but it struggle to adapt to new items and the evolving e-commerce environment. To address these challenges, we propose a novel Large Language Model based Complementary Knowledge Enhanced Recommendation System (LLM-KERec). It introduces an entity extractor that extracts unified concept terms from item and user information. To provide cost-effective and reliable prior knowledge, entity pairs are generated based on entity popularity and specific strategies. The large language model determines complementary relationships in each entity pair, constructing a complementary knowledge graph. Furthermore, a new complementary recall module and an Entity-Entity-Item (E-E-I) weight decision model refine the scoring of the ranking model using real complementary exposure-click samples. Extensive experiments conducted on three industry datasets demonstrate the significant performance improvement of our model compared to existing approaches.
Additionally, detailed analysis shows that LLM-KERec enhances users' enthusiasm for consumption by recommending complementary items. In summary, LLM-KERec addresses the limitations of traditional recommendation systems by incorporating complementary knowledge and utilizing a large language model to capture user intent transitions, adapt to new items, and enhance recommendation efficiency in the evolving e-commerce landscape.

------------

`[2402.13840] LLM4SBR: A Lightweight and Effective Framework for Integrating Large Language Models in Session-based Recommendation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13840>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 14:38:02 GMT
    Shutong Qiao, Chen Gao, Junhao Wen, Wei Zhou, Qun Luo, Peixuan Chen and Yong Li

Traditional session-based recommendation (SBR) utilizes session behavior sequences from anonymous users for recommendation. Although this strategy is highly efficient, it sacrifices the inherent semantic information of the items, making it difficult for the model to understand the true intent of the session and resulting in a lack of interpretability in the recommended results.
Recently, large language models (LLMs) have flourished across various domains, offering a glimpse of hope in addressing the aforementioned challenges.
Inspired by the impact of LLMs, research exploring the integration of LLMs with the Recommender system (RS) has surged like mushrooms after rain. However, constrained by high time and space costs, as well as the brief and anonymous nature of session data, the first LLM recommendation framework suitable for industrial deployment has yet to emerge in the field of SBR. To address the aforementioned challenges, we have proposed the LLM Integration Framework for SBR (LLM4SBR). Serving as a lightweight and plug-and-play framework, LLM4SBR adopts a two-step strategy. Firstly, we transform session data into a bimodal form of text and behavior. In the first step, leveraging the inferential capabilities of LLMs, we conduct inference on session text data from different perspectives and design the component for auxiliary enhancement. In the second step, the SBR model is trained on behavior data, aligning and averaging two modal session representations from different perspectives. Finally, we fuse session representations from different perspectives and modalities as the ultimate session representation for recommendation. We conducted experiments on two real-world datasets, and the results demonstrate that LLM4SBR significantly improves the performance of traditional SBR models and is highly lightweight and efficient, making it suitable for industrial deployment.

------------

`[2402.13846] Large Language Models are Advanced Anonymizers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13846>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 14:44:00 GMT
    Robin Staab, Mark Vero, Mislav Balunovi\'c, Martin Vechev

Recent work in privacy research on large language models has shown that they achieve near human-level performance at inferring personal data from real-world online texts. With consistently increasing model capabilities, existing text anonymization methods are currently lacking behind regulatory requirements and adversarial threats. This raises the question of how individuals can effectively protect their personal data in sharing online texts. In this work, we take two steps to answer this question: We first present a new setting for evaluating anonymizations in the face of adversarial LLMs inferences, allowing for a natural measurement of anonymization performance while remedying some of the shortcomings of previous metrics. We then present our LLM-based adversarial anonymization framework leveraging the strong inferential capabilities of LLMs to inform our anonymization procedure. In our experimental evaluation, we show on real-world and synthetic online texts how adversarial anonymization outperforms current industry-grade anonymizers both in terms of the resulting utility and privacy.

------------

`[2402.13853] RealDex: Towards Human-like Grasping for Robotic Dexterous Hand <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13853>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 14:59:46 GMT
    Yumeng Liu, Yaxun Yang, Youzhuo Wang, Xiaofei Wu, Jiamin Wang, Yichen Yao, S\"oren Schwertfeger, Sibei Yang, Wenping Wang, Jingyi Yu, Xuming He, Yuexin Ma

In this paper, we introduce RealDex, a pioneering dataset capturing authentic dexterous hand grasping motions infused with human behavioral patterns, enriched by multi-view and multimodal visual data. Utilizing a teleoperation system, we seamlessly synchronize human-robot hand poses in real time. This collection of human-like motions is crucial for training dexterous hands to mimic human movements more naturally and precisely. RealDex holds immense promise in advancing humanoid robot for automated perception, cognition, and manipulation in real-world scenarios. Moreover, we introduce a cutting-edge dexterous grasping motion generation framework, which aligns with human experience and enhances real-world applicability through effectively utilizing Multimodal Large Language Models. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the superior performance of our method on RealDex and other open datasets. The complete dataset and code will be made available upon the publication of this work.

------------

`[2402.13500] Leveraging Translation For Optimal Recall: Tailoring LLM Personalization With User Profiles <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13500>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:25:14 GMT
    Karthik Ravichandran, Sarmistha Sarna Gomasta

This paper explores a novel technique for improving recall in cross-language information retrieval (CLIR) systems using iterative query refinement grounded in the user's lexical-semantic space. The proposed methodology combines multi-level translation, semantic embedding-based expansion, and user profile-centered augmentation to address the challenge of matching variance between user queries and relevant documents. Through an initial BM25 retrieval, translation into intermediate languages, embedding lookup of similar terms, and iterative re-ranking, the technique aims to expand the scope of potentially relevant results personalized to the individual user. Comparative experiments on news and Twitter datasets demonstrate superior performance over baseline BM25 ranking for the proposed approach across ROUGE metrics. The translation methodology also showed maintained semantic accuracy through the multi-step process. This personalized CLIR framework paves the path for improved context-aware retrieval attentive to the nuances of user language.

------------

`[2402.13518] RITFIS: Robust input testing framework for LLMs-based intelligent software <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13518>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:00:54 GMT
    Mingxuan Xiao, Yan Xiao, Hai Dong, Shunhui Ji and Pengcheng Zhang

The dependence of Natural Language Processing (NLP) intelligent software on Large Language Models (LLMs) is increasingly prominent, underscoring the necessity for robustness testing. Current testing methods focus solely on the robustness of LLM-based software to prompts. Given the complexity and diversity of real-world inputs, studying the robustness of LLMbased software in handling comprehensive inputs (including prompts and examples) is crucial for a thorough understanding of its performance.
To this end, this paper introduces RITFIS, a Robust Input Testing Framework for LLM-based Intelligent Software. To our knowledge, RITFIS is the first framework designed to assess the robustness of LLM-based intelligent software against natural language inputs. This framework, based on given threat models and prompts, primarily defines the testing process as a combinatorial optimization problem. Successful test cases are determined by a goal function, creating a transformation space for the original examples through perturbation means, and employing a series of search methods to filter cases that meet both the testing objectives and language constraints. RITFIS, with its modular design, offers a comprehensive method for evaluating the robustness of LLMbased intelligent software.
RITFIS adapts 17 automated testing methods, originally designed for Deep Neural Network (DNN)-based intelligent software, to the LLM-based software testing scenario. It demonstrates the effectiveness of RITFIS in evaluating LLM-based intelligent software through empirical validation. However, existing methods generally have limitations, especially when dealing with lengthy texts and structurally complex threat models. Therefore, we conducted a comprehensive analysis based on five metrics and provided insightful testing method optimization strategies, benefiting both researchers and everyday users.

------------

`[2402.13659] Privacy-Preserving Instructions for Aligning Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13659>`__

::

    Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:45:08 GMT
    Da Yu, Peter Kairouz, Sewoong Oh, Zheng Xu

Service providers of large language model (LLM) applications collect user instructions in the wild and use them in further aligning LLMs with users' intentions. These instructions, which potentially contain sensitive information, are annotated by human workers in the process. This poses a new privacy risk not addressed by the typical private optimization. To this end, we propose using synthetic instructions to replace real instructions in data annotation and model fine-tuning. Formal differential privacy is guaranteed by generating those synthetic instructions using privately fine-tuned generators.
Crucial in achieving the desired utility is our novel filtering algorithm that matches the distribution of the synthetic instructions to that of the real ones. In both supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning from human feedback, our extensive experiments demonstrate the high utility of the final set of synthetic instructions by showing comparable results to real instructions. In supervised fine-tuning, models trained with private synthetic instructions outperform leading open-source models such as Vicuna.

------------

`[2402.13291] DeepCode AI Fix: Fixing Security Vulnerabilities with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13291>`__

::

    Mon, 19 Feb 2024 18:35:40 GMT
    Berkay Berabi, Alexey Gronskiy, Veselin Raychev, Gishor Sivanrupan, Victor Chibotaru, Martin Vechev

The automated program repair field has attracted substantial interest over the years, but despite significant research efforts, creating a system that works well for complex semantic bugs such as security vulnerabilities has proven difficult. A promising direction to solve this challenge is by leveraging large language models (LLMs), which are increasingly used to solve various programming tasks. In this paper, we investigate the effectiveness of LLMs for solving code-repair task. We show that the task is difficult as it requires the model to learn long-range code relationships, a task that inherently relies on extensive amounts of training data. At the same time, creating a large, clean dataset for complex program bugs and their corresponding fixes is non-trivial. We propose a technique to address these challenges with a new approach for querying and fine-tuning LLMs. The idea is to use program analysis to limit the LLM's attention mechanism on the portions of code needed to perform the fix, drastically reducing the amount of required training data. Concretely, for training and inference, rather than feeding the entire program to the LLM, we reduce its code to a much shorter snippet that contains the reported defect together with the necessary context - and use that instead. Our evaluation shows that this code reduction approach substantially improves available models such as GPT-4 using few-shot learning, as well as fine-tuning models. To train and evaluate our system, we created a comprehensive code fixing dataset by extensively labeling 156 bug patterns (including 40 security rules), requiring complex interprocedural dataflow to discover. Our best system with Mixtral-8x7B can remove more than 80% of the reported defects while exactly matching the human fix in between 10 and 50% of cases, outperforming baselines based on GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, or based on window-based models like TFix.

------------

`[2402.06147] DeAL: Decoding-time Alignment for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06147>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:25:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Sailik Sengupta [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 06:12:29 UTC (208 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:25:32 UTC (208 KB)
    James Y. Huang, Sailik Sengupta, Daniele Bonadiman, Yi-an Lai, Arshit Gupta, Nikolaos Pappas, Saab Mansour, Katrin Kirchhoff, Dan Roth

Large Language Models (LLMs) are nowadays expected to generate content aligned with human preferences. Current work focuses on alignment at model training time, through techniques such as Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF). However, it is unclear if such methods are an effective choice to teach alignment objectives to the model. First, the inability to incorporate multiple, custom rewards and reliance on a model developer's view of universal and static principles are key limitations. Second, the residual gaps in model training and the reliability of such approaches are also questionable (e.g. susceptibility to jail-breaking even after safety training). To address these, we propose DeAL, a framework that allows the user to customize reward functions and enables Decoding-time Alignment of LLMs (DeAL). At its core, we view decoding as a heuristic-guided search process and facilitate the use of a wide variety of alignment objectives. Our experiments with programmatic constraints such as keyword and length constraints (studied widely in the pre-LLM era) and abstract objectives such as harmlessness and helpfulness (proposed in the post-LLM era) show that we can DeAL with fine-grained trade-offs, improve adherence to alignment objectives, and address residual gaps in LLMs. Lastly, while DeAL can be effectively paired with RLHF and prompting techniques, its generality makes decoding slower, an optimization we leave for future work.

------------

`[2402.09764] Aligning Crowd Feedback via Distributional Preference Reward Modeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09764>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:56:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Dexun Li [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 07:29:43 UTC (1,795 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:56:28 UTC (1,794 KB)
    Dexun Li, Cong Zhang, Kuicai Dong, Derrick Goh Xin Deik, Ruiming Tang, Yong Liu

Deep Reinforcement Learning is widely used for aligning Large Language Models (LLM) with human preference. However, the conventional reward modelling has predominantly depended on human annotations provided by a select cohort of individuals. Such dependence may unintentionally result in models that are skewed to reflect the inclinations of these annotators, thereby failing to represent the expectations of the wider population adequately. In this paper, we introduce the Distributional Preference Reward Model (DPRM), a simple yet effective framework to align large language models with a diverse set of human preferences. To this end, we characterize the preferences by a beta distribution, which can dynamically adapt to fluctuations in preference trends. On top of that, we design an optimal-transportation-based loss to calibrate DPRM to align with the preference distribution. Finally, the expected reward is utilized to fine-tune an LLM policy to generate responses favoured by the population. Our experiments show that DPRM significantly enhances the alignment of LLMs with population preference, yielding more accurate, unbiased, and contextually appropriate responses.

------------

`[2303.05352] Extracting Accurate Materials Data from Research Papers with Conversational Language Models and Prompt Engineering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.05352>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:07:30 GMT
    Submission history From: Maciej Polak [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 7 Mar 2023 17:54:53 UTC (456 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Jun 2023 06:59:50 UTC (822 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:07:30 UTC (718 KB)
    Maciej P. Polak, Dane Morgan

There has been a growing effort to replace manual extraction of data from research papers with automated data extraction based on natural language processing, language models, and recently, large language models (LLMs). Although these methods enable efficient extraction of data from large sets of research papers, they require a significant amount of up-front effort, expertise, and coding. In this work we propose the ChatExtract method that can fully automate very accurate data extraction with minimal initial effort and background, using an advanced conversational LLM. ChatExtract consists of a set of engineered prompts applied to a conversational LLM that both identify sentences with data, extract that data, and assure the data's correctness through a series of follow-up questions. These follow-up questions largely overcome known issues with LLMs providing factually inaccurate responses. ChatExtract can be applied with any conversational LLMs and yields very high quality data extraction. In tests on materials data we find precision and recall both close to 90% from the best conversational LLMs, like ChatGPT-4. We demonstrate that the exceptional performance is enabled by the information retention in a conversational model combined with purposeful redundancy and introducing uncertainty through follow-up prompts. These results suggest that approaches similar to ChatExtract, due to their simplicity, transferability, and accuracy are likely to become powerful tools for data extraction in the near future. Finally, databases for critical cooling rates of metallic glasses and yield strengths of high entropy alloys are developed using ChatExtract.

------------

`[2303.13809] Error Analysis Prompting Enables Human-Like Translation Evaluation in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.13809>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:18:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Liang Ding [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 24 Mar 2023 05:05:03 UTC (992 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 8 Oct 2023 12:50:10 UTC (3,283 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:18:32 UTC (4,167 KB)
    Qingyu Lu, Baopu Qiu, Liang Ding, Kanjian Zhang, Tom Kocmi, Dacheng Tao

Generative large language models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, have demonstrated remarkable proficiency across several NLP tasks, such as machine translation, text summarization. Recent research (Kocmi and Federmann, 2023) has shown that utilizing LLMs for assessing the quality of machine translation (MT) achieves state-of-the-art performance at the system level but \textit{performs poorly at the segment level}. To further improve the performance of LLMs on MT quality assessment, we investigate several prompting designs, and propose a new prompting method called \textbf{\texttt{Error Analysis Prompting}} (EAPrompt) by combining Chain-of-Thoughts (Wei et al., 2022) and Error Analysis (Lu et al., 2023). This technique emulates the commonly accepted human evaluation framework - Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM, Freitag et al. (2021)) and \textit{produces explainable and reliable MT evaluations at both the system and segment level}. Experimental Results from the WMT22 metrics shared task validate the effectiveness of EAPrompt on various LLMs, with different structures. Further analysis confirms that EAPrompt effectively distinguishes major errors from minor ones, while also sharing a similar distribution of the number of errors with MQM. These findings highlight the potential of EAPrompt as a human-like evaluator prompting technique for MT evaluation.

------------

`[2305.11527] InstructIE: A Bilingual Instruction-based Information Extraction Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11527>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:52:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Ningyu Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 May 2023 08:51:11 UTC (1,887 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:52:52 UTC (4,234 KB)
    Honghao Gui, Shuofei Qiao, Jintian Zhang, Hongbin Ye, Mengshu Sun, Lei Liang, Huajun Chen, Ningyu Zhang

Traditional information extraction (IE) methodologies, constrained by pre-defined classes and static training paradigms, often falter in adaptability, especially in the dynamic world. To bridge this gap, we explore an instruction-based IE paradigm in this paper, leveraging the substantial cross-task generalization capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). We observe that most existing IE datasets tend to be overly redundant in their label sets, which leads to the inclusion of numerous labels not directly relevant to the extraction content when constructing instructions. To tackle this issue, we introduce a bilingual theme-centric IE instruction dataset (Chinese and English), InstructIE, and for the first time, incorporate a theme scheme design that effectively simplifies the label structure. Furthermore, we develop an innovative framework named KG2Instruction, which is specifically designed for the automatic generation of such datasets. Experimental evaluations based on InstructIE reveal that while current models show promise in Instruction-based IE tasks, opportunities for their potential optimization also emerge. The dataset is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2305.11738] CRITIC: Large Language Models Can Self-Correct with Tool-Interactive Critiquing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11738>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:59:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhibin Gou [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 May 2023 15:19:44 UTC (465 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Sep 2023 08:35:29 UTC (646 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 08:17:39 UTC (653 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:59:21 UTC (653 KB)
    Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Yujiu Yang, Nan Duan, Weizhu Chen

Recent developments in large language models (LLMs) have been impressive. However, these models sometimes show inconsistencies and problematic behavior, such as hallucinating facts, generating flawed code, or creating offensive and toxic content. Unlike these models, humans typically utilize external tools to cross-check and refine their initial content, like using a search engine for fact-checking, or a code interpreter for debugging. Inspired by this observation, we introduce a framework called CRITIC that allows LLMs, which are essentially "black boxes" to validate and progressively amend their own outputs in a manner similar to human interaction with tools. More specifically, starting with an initial output, CRITIC interacts with appropriate tools to evaluate certain aspects of the text, and then revises the output based on the feedback obtained during this validation process. Comprehensive evaluations involving free-form question answering, mathematical program synthesis, and toxicity reduction demonstrate that CRITIC consistently enhances the performance of LLMs. Meanwhile, our research highlights the crucial importance of external feedback in promoting the ongoing self-improvement of LLMs.

------------

`[2305.13269] Chain-of-Knowledge: Grounding Large Language Models via Dynamic Knowledge Adapting over Heterogeneous Sources <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13269>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:44:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Xingxuan Li [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 May 2023 17:34:23 UTC (7,682 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 12:30:20 UTC (2,433 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Dec 2023 04:10:28 UTC (2,928 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:44:48 UTC (2,925 KB)
    Xingxuan Li, Ruochen Zhao, Yew Ken Chia, Bosheng Ding, Shafiq Joty, Soujanya Poria, Lidong Bing

We present chain-of-knowledge (CoK), a novel framework that augments large language models (LLMs) by dynamically incorporating grounding information from heterogeneous sources. It results in more factual rationales and reduced hallucination in generation. Specifically, CoK consists of three stages: reasoning preparation, dynamic knowledge adapting, and answer consolidation. Given a knowledge-intensive question, CoK first prepares several preliminary rationales and answers while identifying the relevant knowledge domains. If there is no majority consensus among the answers from samples, CoK corrects the rationales step by step by adapting knowledge from the identified domains. These corrected rationales can plausibly serve as a better foundation for the final answer consolidation. Unlike prior studies that primarily use unstructured data, CoK also leverages structured knowledge sources such as Wikidata and tables that provide more reliable factual information. To access both unstructured and structured knowledge sources in the dynamic knowledge adapting stage, we propose an adaptive query generator that allows the generation of queries for various types of query languages, including SPARQL, SQL, and natural sentences. Moreover, to minimize error propagation between rationales, CoK corrects the rationales progressively using preceding corrected rationales to generate and correct subsequent rationales. Extensive experiments show that CoK consistently improves the performance of LLMs on knowledge-intensive tasks across different domains.

------------

`[2305.13718] LogicLLM: Exploring Self-supervised Logic-enhanced Training for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13718>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:19:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Fangkai Jiao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 May 2023 06:13:10 UTC (7,851 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 24 May 2023 06:38:41 UTC (7,852 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 04:37:57 UTC (10,516 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:19:01 UTC (10,552 KB)
    [v5] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 15:05:08 UTC (10,552 KB)
    Fangkai Jiao, Zhiyang Teng, Bosheng Ding, Zhengyuan Liu, Nancy F. Chen, Shafiq Joty

Existing efforts to improve logical reasoning ability of language models have predominantly relied on supervised fine-tuning, hindering generalization to new domains and/or tasks. The development of Large Langauge Models (LLMs) has demonstrated the capacity of compressing abundant knowledge into a single proxy, enabling them to tackle multiple tasks effectively. Our preliminary experiments, nevertheless, show that LLMs do not show capability on logical reasoning. The performance of LLMs on logical reasoning benchmarks is far behind the existing state-of-the-art baselines. In this paper, we make the first attempt to investigate the feasibility of incorporating logical knowledge through self-supervised post-training, and activating it via in-context learning, which we termed as LogicLLM. Specifically, we devise an auto-regressive objective variant of MERIt and integrate it with two LLM series, i.e., FLAN-T5 and LLaMA, with parameter size ranging from 3 billion to 13 billion. The results on two challenging logical reasoning benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of LogicLLM. Besides, we conduct extensive ablation studies to analyze the key factors in designing logic-oriented proxy tasks.

------------

`[2305.15090] STAR: Boosting Low-Resource Information Extraction by Structure-to-Text Data Generation with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15090>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 20:00:21 GMT
    Submission history From: Mingyu Derek Ma [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 May 2023 12:15:19 UTC (9,877 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Sep 2023 08:37:28 UTC (6,663 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 20:00:21 UTC (6,518 KB)
    Mingyu Derek Ma, Xiaoxuan Wang, Po-Nien Kung, P. Jeffrey Brantingham, Nanyun Peng, Wei Wang

Information extraction tasks such as event extraction require an in-depth understanding of the output structure and sub-task dependencies. They heavily rely on task-specific training data in the form of (passage, target structure) pairs to obtain reasonable performance. However, obtaining such data through human annotation is costly, leading to a pressing need for low-resource information extraction approaches that require minimal human labeling for real-world applications. Fine-tuning supervised models with synthesized training data would be a generalizable method, but the existing data generation methods either still rely on large-scale ground-truth data or cannot be applied to complicated IE tasks due to their poor performance. To address these challenges, we propose STAR, a data generation method that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to synthesize data instances given limited seed demonstrations, thereby boosting low-resource information extraction performance. Our approach involves generating target structures (Y) followed by generating passages (X), all accomplished with the aid of LLMs. We design fine-grained step-by-step instructions to obtain the initial data instances. We further reduce errors and improve data quality through self-reflection error identification and self-refinement with iterative revision. Our experiments show that the data generated by STAR significantly improve the performance of low-resource event extraction and relation extraction tasks, even surpassing the effectiveness of human-curated data. Human assessment of the data quality shows STAR-generated data exhibits higher passage quality and better align with the task definitions compared with the human-curated data.

------------

`[2308.10149] A Survey on Fairness in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.10149>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:52:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Yingji Li [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 20 Aug 2023 03:30:22 UTC (286 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:52:11 UTC (4,915 KB)
    Yingji Li, Mengnan Du, Rui Song, Xin Wang, Ying Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown powerful performance and development prospects and are widely deployed in the real world. However, LLMs can capture social biases from unprocessed training data and propagate the biases to downstream tasks. Unfair LLM systems have undesirable social impacts and potential harms. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review of related research on fairness in LLMs. Considering the influence of parameter magnitude and training paradigm on research strategy, we divide existing fairness research into oriented to medium-sized LLMs under pre-training and fine-tuning paradigms and oriented to large-sized LLMs under prompting paradigms. First, for medium-sized LLMs, we introduce evaluation metrics and debiasing methods from the perspectives of intrinsic bias and extrinsic bias, respectively. Then, for large-sized LLMs, we introduce recent fairness research, including fairness evaluation, reasons for bias, and debiasing methods. Finally, we discuss and provide insight on the challenges and future directions for the development of fairness in LLMs.

------------

`[2309.08172] LASER: LLM Agent with State-Space Exploration for Web Navigation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08172>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:42:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Kaixin Ma [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Sep 2023 05:44:08 UTC (9,796 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:42:32 UTC (9,841 KB)
    Kaixin Ma, Hongming Zhang, Hongwei Wang, Xiaoman Pan, Wenhao Yu, Dong Yu

Large language models (LLMs) have been successfully adapted for interactive decision-making tasks like web navigation. While achieving decent performance, previous methods implicitly assume a forward-only execution mode for the model, where they only provide oracle trajectories as in-context examples to guide the model on how to reason in the environment. Consequently, the model could not handle more challenging scenarios not covered in the in-context examples, e.g., mistakes, leading to sub-optimal performance. To address this issue, we propose to model the interactive task as state space exploration, where the LLM agent transitions among a pre-defined set of states by performing actions to complete the task. This formulation enables flexible backtracking, allowing the model to recover from errors easily. We evaluate our proposed LLM Agent with State-Space ExploRation (LASER) on both the WebShop task and this http URL. Experimental results show that LASER significantly outperforms previous methods and closes the gap with human performance on the web navigation task.

------------

`[2309.09530] Adapting Large Language Models via Reading Comprehension <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.09530>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:45:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Daixuan Cheng [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 18 Sep 2023 07:17:52 UTC (518 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:45:00 UTC (555 KB)
    Daixuan Cheng, Shaohan Huang, Furu Wei

We explore how continued pre-training on domain-specific corpora influences large language models, revealing that training on the raw corpora endows the model with domain knowledge, but drastically hurts its prompting ability for question answering. Taken inspiration from human learning via reading comprehension--practice after reading improves the ability to answer questions based on the learned knowledge--we propose a simple method for transforming raw corpora into reading comprehension texts. Each raw text is enriched with a series of tasks related to its content. Our method, highly scalable and applicable to any pre-training corpora, consistently enhances performance across various tasks in three different domains: biomedicine, finance, and law. Notably, our 7B language model achieves competitive performance with domain-specific models of much larger scales, such as BloombergGPT-50B. Furthermore, we demonstrate that domain-specific reading comprehension texts can improve the model's performance even on general benchmarks, showing the potential to develop a general model across even more domains. Our model, code, and data are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2309.10400] PoSE: Efficient Context Window Extension of LLMs via Positional Skip-wise Training <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10400>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:37:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Dawei Zhu [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 19 Sep 2023 08:03:38 UTC (216 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 07:51:31 UTC (231 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:37:07 UTC (674 KB)
    Dawei Zhu and Nan Yang and Liang Wang and Yifan Song and Wenhao Wu and Furu Wei and Sujian Li

Large Language Models (LLMs) are trained with a pre-defined context length, restricting their use in scenarios requiring long inputs. Previous efforts for adapting LLMs to a longer length usually requires fine-tuning with this target length (Full-length fine-tuning), suffering intensive training cost. To decouple train length from target length for efficient context window extension, we propose Positional Skip-wisE (PoSE) training that smartly simulates long inputs using a fixed context window. This is achieved by first dividing the original context window into several chunks, then designing distinct skipping bias terms to manipulate the position indices of each chunk. These bias terms and the lengths of each chunk are altered for every training example, allowing the model to adapt to all positions within target length. Experimental results show that PoSE greatly reduces memory and time overhead compared with Full-length fine-tuning, with minimal impact on performance. Leveraging this advantage, we have successfully extended the LLaMA model to 128k tokens using a 2k training context window. Furthermore, we empirically confirm that PoSE is compatible with all RoPE-based LLMs and position interpolation strategies. Notably, our method can potentially support infinite length, limited only by memory usage in inference. With ongoing progress for efficient inference, we believe PoSE can further scale the context window beyond 128k.

------------

`[2309.17272] Enhancing Large Language Models in Coding Through Multi-Perspective Self-Consistency <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17272>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:32:13 GMT
    Submission history From: Shuai Lu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 29 Sep 2023 14:23:26 UTC (229 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:32:13 UTC (2,480 KB)
    Baizhou Huang, Shuai Lu, Weizhu Chen, Xiaojun Wan, Nan Duan

Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable ability in code generation. However, generating the correct solution in a single attempt still remains a challenge. Prior works utilize verification properties in software engineering to verify and re-rank solutions in a majority voting manner. But the assumption behind them that generated verification properties have better qualities than solutions may not always hold. In this paper, we treat them equally as different perspectives of LLMs' reasoning processes. We propose the Multi-Perspective Self-Consistency (MPSC) framework incorporating both inter- and intra-consistency across outputs from multiple perspectives. Specifically, we prompt LLMs to generate diverse outputs from three perspectives, Solution, Specification and Test case, constructing a 3-partite graph. With two measure functions of consistency, we embed both inter- and intra-consistency information into the graph. The optimal choice of solutions is then determined based on analysis in the graph. MPSC significantly boosts performance of foundation models (ChatGPT in this paper) on various benchmarks, including HumanEval (+15.91%), MBPP (+6.43%) and CodeContests (+9.37%), even surpassing GPT-4.

------------

`[2309.17452] ToRA: A Tool-Integrated Reasoning Agent for Mathematical Problem Solving <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17452>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:59:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhibin Gou [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 29 Sep 2023 17:59:38 UTC (1,051 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 08:13:03 UTC (447 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 08:22:59 UTC (469 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:59:22 UTC (469 KB)
    Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Yujiu Yang, Minlie Huang, Nan Duan, Weizhu Chen

Large language models have made significant progress in various language tasks, yet they still struggle with complex mathematics. In this paper, we propose ToRA a series of Tool-integrated Reasoning Agents designed to solve challenging mathematical problems by seamlessly integrating natural language reasoning with the utilization of external tools (e.g., computation libraries and symbolic solvers), thereby amalgamating the analytical prowess of language and the computational efficiency of tools. To train ToRA, we curate interactive tool-use trajectories on mathematical datasets, apply imitation learning on the annotations, and propose output space shaping to further refine models' reasoning behavior. As a result, ToRA models significantly outperform open-source models on 10 mathematical reasoning datasets across all scales with 13%-19% absolute improvements on average. Notably, ToRA-7B reaches 44.6% on the competition-level dataset MATH, surpassing the best open-source model WizardMath-70B by 22% absolute. ToRA-Code-34B is also the first open-source model that achieves an accuracy exceeding 50% on MATH, which significantly outperforms GPT-4's CoT result, and is competitive with GPT-4 solving problems with programs. Additionally, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of the benefits and remaining challenges of tool interaction for mathematical reasoning, providing valuable insights for future research.

------------

`[2310.00297] Understanding In-Context Learning from Repetitions <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00297>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:21:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Jianhao Yan [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 30 Sep 2023 08:13:49 UTC (9,897 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 01:22:47 UTC (9,894 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 09:21:52 UTC (20,117 KB)
    Jianhao Yan, Jin Xu, Chiyu Song, Chenming Wu, Yafu Li, Yue Zhang

This paper explores the elusive mechanism underpinning in-context learning in Large Language Models (LLMs). Our work provides a novel perspective by examining in-context learning via the lens of surface repetitions. We quantitatively investigate the role of surface features in text generation, and empirically establish the existence of \emph{token co-occurrence reinforcement}, a principle that strengthens the relationship between two tokens based on their contextual co-occurrences. By investigating the dual impacts of these features, our research illuminates the internal workings of in-context learning and expounds on the reasons for its failures. This paper provides an essential contribution to the understanding of in-context learning and its potential limitations, providing a fresh perspective on this exciting capability.

------------

`[2310.01468] Probing the Multi-turn Planning Capabilities of LLMs via 20 Question Games <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01468>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 21:24:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Yizhe Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 2 Oct 2023 16:55:37 UTC (4,529 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 05:40:10 UTC (4,525 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 21:24:43 UTC (5,219 KB)
    Yizhe Zhang, Jiarui Lu, Navdeep Jaitly

Large language models (LLMs) are effective at answering questions that are clearly asked. However, when faced with ambiguous queries they can act unpredictably and produce incorrect outputs. This underscores the need for the development of intelligent agents capable of asking clarification questions to resolve ambiguities effectively. This capability requires complex understanding, state tracking, reasoning and planning over multiple conversational turns. However, directly measuring this can be challenging. In this paper, we offer a surrogate problem which assesses an LLMs's capability to deduce an entity unknown to itself, but revealed to a judge, by asking the judge a series of queries. This \textit{entity-deducing game} can serve as an evaluation framework to probe the conversational reasoning and planning capabilities of language models. We systematically evaluate various LLMs and discover significant differences in their performance on this task. We find that strong LLMs like GPT-4 outperform human players by a large margin. We further employ Behavior Cloning (BC) to examine whether a weaker model is capable of imitating a stronger model and generalizing to data or domains, using only the demonstrations from a stronger model. We finally propose to use Reinforcement Learning to enhance reasoning and planning capacity of Vicuna models through episodes of game playing, which lead to significant performance improvement. We hope that this problem offers insights into how autonomous agents could be trained to behave more intelligently in ambiguous circumstances.

------------

`[2310.03668] GoLLIE: Annotation Guidelines improve Zero-Shot Information-Extraction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03668>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:51:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Iker Garca-Ferrero [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 5 Oct 2023 16:43:13 UTC (9,011 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 6 Oct 2023 17:41:15 UTC (9,011 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 11 Dec 2023 08:24:40 UTC (9,543 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:51:58 UTC (9,832 KB)
    [v5] Wed, 6 Mar 2024 16:38:03 UTC (9,832 KB)
    Oscar Sainz, Iker Garc\'ia-Ferrero, Rodrigo Agerri, Oier Lopez de Lacalle, German Rigau, Eneko Agirre

Large Language Models (LLMs) combined with instruction tuning have made significant progress when generalizing to unseen tasks. However, they have been less successful in Information Extraction (IE), lagging behind task-specific models. Typically, IE tasks are characterized by complex annotation guidelines that describe the task and give examples to humans. Previous attempts to leverage such information have failed, even with the largest models, as they are not able to follow the guidelines out of the box. In this paper, we propose GoLLIE (Guideline-following Large Language Model for IE), a model able to improve zero-shot results on unseen IE tasks by virtue of being fine-tuned to comply with annotation guidelines. Comprehensive evaluation empirically demonstrates that GoLLIE is able to generalize to and follow unseen guidelines, outperforming previous attempts at zero-shot information extraction. The ablation study shows that detailed guidelines are key for good results.

------------

`[2310.08041] QLLM: Accurate and Efficient Low-Bitwidth Quantization for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08041>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:40:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Bohan Zhuang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 12 Oct 2023 05:25:49 UTC (1,424 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:40:49 UTC (1,656 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 6 Apr 2024 10:22:57 UTC (1,659 KB)
    Jing Liu, Ruihao Gong, Xiuying Wei, Zhiwei Dong, Jianfei Cai, Bohan Zhuang

Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in NLP, but their demands hinder their widespread deployment. While Quantization-Aware Training (QAT) offers a solution, its extensive training costs make Post-Training Quantization (PTQ) a more practical approach for LLMs. In existing studies, activation outliers in particular channels are identified as the bottleneck to PTQ accuracy. They propose to transform the magnitudes from activations to weights, which however offers limited alleviation or suffers from unstable gradients, resulting in a severe performance drop at low-bitwidth. In this paper, we propose QLLM, an accurate and efficient low-bitwidth PTQ method designed for LLMs. QLLM introduces an adaptive channel reassembly technique that reallocates the magnitude of outliers to other channels, thereby mitigating their impact on the quantization range. This is achieved by channel disassembly and channel assembly, which first breaks down the outlier channels into several sub-channels to ensure a more balanced distribution of activation magnitudes. Then similar channels are merged to maintain the original channel number for efficiency. Additionally, an adaptive strategy is designed to autonomously determine the optimal number of sub-channels for channel disassembly. To further compensate for the performance loss caused by quantization, we propose an efficient tuning method that only learns a small number of low-rank weights while freezing the pre-trained quantized model. After training, these low-rank parameters can be fused into the frozen weights without affecting inference. Extensive experiments on LLaMA-1 and LLaMA-2 show that QLLM can obtain accurate quantized models efficiently. For example, QLLM quantizes the 4-bit LLaMA-2-70B within 10 hours on a single A100-80G GPU, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art method by 7.89% on the average accuracy across five zero-shot tasks.

------------

`[2311.07092] To Tell The Truth: Language of Deception and Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07092>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:53:12 GMT
    Submission history From: Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 13 Nov 2023 05:40:11 UTC (8,273 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:53:12 UTC (8,223 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 05:54:40 UTC (8,227 KB)
    Sanchaita Hazra, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder

Text-based misinformation permeates online discourses, yet evidence of people's ability to discern truth from such deceptive textual content is scarce. We analyze a novel TV game show data where conversations in a high-stake environment between individuals with conflicting objectives result in lies. We investigate the manifestation of potentially verifiable language cues of deception in the presence of objective truth, a distinguishing feature absent in previous text-based deception datasets. We show that there exists a class of detectors (algorithms) that have similar truth detection performance compared to human subjects, even when the former accesses only the language cues while the latter engages in conversations with complete access to all potential sources of cues (language and audio-visual). Our model, built on a large language model, employs a bottleneck framework to learn discernible cues to determine truth, an act of reasoning in which human subjects often perform poorly, even with incentives. Our model detects novel but accurate language cues in many cases where humans failed to detect deception, opening up the possibility of humans collaborating with algorithms and ameliorating their ability to detect the truth.

------------

`[2311.07215] Coffee: Boost Your Code LLMs by Fixing Bugs with Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07215>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:46:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Seungjun Moon [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 13 Nov 2023 10:15:19 UTC (8,700 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:46:50 UTC (3,979 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 06:56:16 UTC (3,979 KB)
    Seungjun Moon, Yongho Song, Hyungjoo Chae, Dongjin Kang, Taeyoon Kwon, Kai Tzu-iunn Ong, Seung-won Hwang, Jinyoung Yeo

Code editing is an essential step towards reliable program synthesis to automatically correct critical errors generated from code LLMs. Recent studies have demonstrated that closed-source LLMs (i.e., ChatGPT and GPT-4) are capable of generating corrective feedback to edit erroneous inputs. However, it remains challenging for open-source code LLMs to generate feedback for code editing, since these models tend to adhere to the superficial formats of feedback and provide feedback with misleading information. Hence, the focus of our work is to leverage open-source code LLMs to generate helpful feedback with correct guidance for code editing. To this end, we present Coffee, a collected dataset specifically designed for code fixing with feedback. Using this dataset, we construct CoffeePots, a framework for COde Fixing with FEEdback via Preference-Optimized Tuning and Selection. The proposed framework aims to automatically generate helpful feedback for code editing while minimizing the potential risk of superficial feedback. The combination of Coffee and CoffeePots marks a significant advancement, achieving state-of-the-art performance on HumanEvalFix benchmark. Codes and model checkpoints are publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.07945] Well begun is half done: Importance of Starting Right in Multi-Step Math Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07945>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 21:25:30 GMT
    Submission history From: Kumar Shridhar [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 06:45:31 UTC (324 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 21:25:30 UTC (57 KB)
    Kushal Jain, Niket Tandon, Kumar Shridhar

Smaller language models can solve complex reasoning tasks better by learning to generate rationales for their predictions. However, we observe that these smaller models can sometimes struggle to start correctly, but when corrected, can solve a task that they would otherwise have struggled with. We propose two ways in which a smaller model can benefit from initial guidance: 1) asking an LLM for initial guidance, and 2) self-questioning guidance, where the student model can first initiate a question regarding how to start and then continue that chain. We extend initial question-based guidance to a prompting technique called QuestCoT, where starting with a question before a chain of reasoning proves useful. On two multi-step math reasoning datasets GSM8K and SVAMP, we show that starting correctly can lead to a significant performance gain (up to $+14$ points with LLM guidance and $+6$ points with QuestCoT).

------------

`[2311.08596] Are You Sure? Challenging LLMs Leads to Performance Drops in The FlipFlop Experiment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08596>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:15:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Philippe Laban [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 23:40:22 UTC (352 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:15:47 UTC (430 KB)
    Philippe Laban and Lidiya Murakhovs'ka and Caiming Xiong and Chien-Sheng Wu

The interactive nature of Large Language Models (LLMs) theoretically allows models to refine and improve their answers, yet systematic analysis of the multi-turn behavior of LLMs remains limited. In this paper, we propose the FlipFlop experiment: in the first round of the conversation, an LLM completes a classification task. In a second round, the LLM is challenged with a follow-up phrase like "Are you sure?", offering an opportunity for the model to reflect on its initial answer, and decide whether to confirm or flip its answer. A systematic study of ten LLMs on seven classification tasks reveals that models flip their answers on average 46% of the time and that all models see a deterioration of accuracy between their first and final prediction, with an average drop of 17% (the FlipFlop effect). We conduct finetuning experiments on an open-source LLM and find that finetuning on synthetically created data can mitigate - reducing performance deterioration by 60% - but not resolve sycophantic behavior entirely. The FlipFlop experiment illustrates the universality of sycophantic behavior in LLMs and provides a robust framework to analyze model behavior and evaluate future models.

------------

`[2312.07250] Neural Machine Translation of Clinical Text: An Empirical Investigation into Multilingual Pre-Trained Language Models and Transfer-Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07250>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:08:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Lifeng Han Dr [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 12 Dec 2023 13:26:42 UTC (3,534 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:08:47 UTC (3,551 KB)
    Lifeng Han, Serge Gladkoff, Gleb Erofeev, Irina Sorokina, Betty Galiano, Goran Nenadic

We conduct investigations on clinical text machine translation by examining multilingual neural network models using deep learning such as Transformer based structures. Furthermore, to address the language resource imbalance issue, we also carry out experiments using a transfer learning methodology based on massive multilingual pre-trained language models (MMPLMs). The experimental results on three subtasks including 1) clinical case (CC), 2) clinical terminology (CT), and 3) ontological concept (OC) show that our models achieved top-level performances in the ClinSpEn-2022 shared task on English-Spanish clinical domain data. Furthermore, our expert-based human evaluations demonstrate that the small-sized pre-trained language model (PLM) won over the other two extra-large language models by a large margin, in the clinical domain fine-tuning, which finding was never reported in the field. Finally, the transfer learning method works well in our experimental setting using the WMT21fb model to accommodate a new language space Spanish that was not seen at the pre-training stage within WMT21fb itself, which deserves more exploitation for clinical knowledge transformation, e.g. to investigate into more languages. These research findings can shed some light on domain-specific machine translation development, especially in clinical and healthcare fields. Further research projects can be carried out based on our work to improve healthcare text analytics and knowledge transformation. Our data will be openly available for research purposes at this https URL

------------

`[2401.04898] ANGO: A Next-Level Evaluation Benchmark For Generation-Oriented Language Models In Chinese Domain <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04898>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:44:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Bingchao Wang Ango [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 10 Jan 2024 02:59:49 UTC (397 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:44:37 UTC (397 KB)
    Bingchao Wang

Recently, various Large Language Models (LLMs) evaluation datasets have emerged, but most of them have issues with distorted rankings and difficulty in model capabilities analysis. Addressing these concerns, this paper introduces ANGO, a Chinese multi-choice question evaluation benchmark. ANGO proposes Keypoint categorization standard for the first time, each question in ANGO can correspond to multiple keypoints, effectively enhancing interpretability of evaluation results. Base on performance of real humans, we build a quantifiable question difficulty standard and divide ANGO questions into 9 difficulty levels, which provide more precise guidance for model training. To minimize data leakage impact and fully leverage ANGO's innovative features, we have engineered exclusive sampling strategies and a new evaluation framework that support swift testset iteration. Our experiments demonstrate that ANGO poses a stronger challenge to models and reveals more details in evaluation result compared to existing benchmarks.

------------

`[2401.05930] SH2: Self-Highlighted Hesitation Helps You Decode More Truthfully <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05930>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:43:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Jushi Kai [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 14:09:09 UTC (7,454 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:43:52 UTC (8,315 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 04:52:35 UTC (8,315 KB)
    Jushi Kai, Tianhang Zhang, Hai Hu, Zhouhan Lin

Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate great performance in text generation. However, LLMs are still suffering from hallucinations. In this work, we propose an inference-time method, Self-Highlighted Hesitation (SH2), to help LLMs decode more truthfully. SH2 is based on a simple fact rooted in information theory that for an LLM, the tokens predicted with lower probabilities are prone to be more informative than others. Our analysis shows that the tokens assigned with lower probabilities by an LLM are more likely to be closely related to factual information, such as nouns, proper nouns, and adjectives. Therefore, we propose to ''highlight'' the factual information by selecting the tokens with the lowest probabilities and concatenating them to the original context, thus forcing the model to repeatedly read and hesitate on these tokens before generation. During decoding, we also adopt contrastive decoding to emphasize the difference in the output probabilities brought by the hesitation. Experimental results demonstrate that our SH2, requiring no additional data or models, can effectively help LLMs elicit factual knowledge and distinguish hallucinated contexts. Significant and consistent improvements are achieved by SH2 for LLaMA-7b, LLaMA2-7b and Mistral-7b on multiple hallucination tasks.

------------

`[2401.06233] LEGOBench: Scientific Leaderboard Generation Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06233>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:40:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Shruti Singh [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 19:20:27 UTC (7,622 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:40:33 UTC (8,451 KB)
    Shruti Singh, Shoaib Alam, Husain Malwat and Mayank Singh

The ever-increasing volume of paper submissions makes it difficult to stay informed about the latest state-of-the-art research. To address this challenge, we introduce LEGOBench, a benchmark for evaluating systems that generate scientific leaderboards. LEGOBench is curated from 22 years of preprint submission data on arXiv and more than 11k machine learning leaderboards on the PapersWithCode portal. We present four graph-based and two language model-based leaderboard generation task configurations. We evaluate popular encoder-only scientific language models as well as decoder-only large language models across these task configurations. State-of-the-art models showcase significant performance gaps in automatic leaderboard generation on LEGOBench. The code is available on GitHub ( this https URL ) and the dataset is hosted on OSF ( this https URL ).

------------

`[2401.06561] Intention Analysis Makes LLMs A Good Jailbreak Defender <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06561>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:25:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuqi Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 13:15:05 UTC (8,429 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:25:08 UTC (9,364 KB)
    Yuqi Zhang and Liang Ding and Lefei Zhang and Dacheng Tao

Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human values, particularly in the face of stealthy and complex jailbreak attacks, presents a formidable challenge. In this study, we present a simple yet highly effective defense strategy, i.e., Intention Analysis ($\mathbb{IA}$). The principle behind this is to trigger LLMs' inherent self-correct and improve ability through a two-stage process: 1) essential intention analysis, and 2) policy-aligned response. Notably, $\mathbb{IA}$ is an inference-only method, thus could enhance the safety of LLMs without compromising their helpfulness. Extensive experiments on SAP200 and DAN benchmarks across Vicuna, ChatGLM, MPT, DeepSeek, and GPT-3.5 show that $\mathbb{IA}$ could consistently and significantly reduce the harmfulness in responses (averagely -46.5\% attack success rate) and maintain the general helpfulness. Encouragingly, with the help of our $\mathbb{IA}$, Vicuna-7b even outperforms GPT-3.5 in terms of attack success rate. Further analyses present some insights into how our method works. To facilitate reproducibility, we release our code and scripts at: this https URL.

------------

`[2401.06628] OOP: Object-Oriented Programming Evaluation Benchmark for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06628>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:18:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Shuai Wang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 15:21:36 UTC (799 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:18:16 UTC (8,791 KB)
    Shuai Wang, Liang Ding, Li Shen, Yong Luo, Bo Du, Dacheng Tao

Advancing automated programming necessitates robust and comprehensive code generation benchmarks, yet current evaluation frameworks largely neglect object-oriented programming (OOP) in favor of functional programming (FP), e.g., HumanEval and MBPP. To address this, our study introduces a pioneering OOP-focused benchmark, featuring 431 Python programs that encompass essential OOP concepts and features like classes and encapsulation methods. We propose a novel evaluation metric, pass@o, tailored for OOP, enhancing traditional pass@k measures. Our evaluation of 23 leading large language models (LLMs), including both general and code-specialized models, reveals three key insights: 1) pass@o offers a more relevant and comprehensive assessment for OOP code generation; 2) Despite excelling in FP, code-specialized LLMs like WizardCoder lag in OOP compared to models like ChatGPT; 3) The poor performance of all advanced LLMs on our OOP benchmark highlights a critical need for improvements in this field. Our benchmark and scripts are publicly released at: this https URL.

------------

`[2401.06836] Enhancing Emotional Generation Capability of Large Language Models via Emotional Chain-of-Thought <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06836>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:13:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Zaijing Li [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 16:42:10 UTC (341 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:13:50 UTC (10,783 KB)
    Zaijing Li, Gongwei Chen, Rui Shao, Dongmei Jiang, and Liqiang Nie

Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in various emotion recognition tasks, thereby piquing the research community's curiosity for exploring their potential in emotional intelligence. However, several issues in the field of emotional generation tasks remain unresolved, including human preference alignment and emotional generation assessment. In this paper, we propose the Emotional Chain-of-Thought (ECoT), a plug-and-play prompting method that enhances the performance of LLMs on various emotional generation tasks by aligning with human emotional intelligence guidelines. To assess the reliability of ECoT, we propose an automated model-based evaluation method called Emotional Generation Score (EGS). EGS incorporates Goleman's Emotional Intelligence Theory as a consensus of human experts, providing a new perspective on the evaluation of emotional generation tasks. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of ECoT and EGS. Further, we discuss the promise of LLMs in the field of emotional intelligence and present key insights into the LLMs with the ECoT in emotional generation tasks.

------------

`[2401.06954] Bridging the Preference Gap between Retrievers and LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06954>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 21:11:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Zixuan Ke [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 13 Jan 2024 02:20:17 UTC (8,554 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 21:11:23 UTC (8,503 KB)
    Zixuan Ke, Weize Kong, Cheng Li, Mingyang Zhang, Qiaozhu Mei and Michael Bendersky

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated superior results across a wide range of tasks, and Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) is an effective way to enhance the performance by locating relevant information and placing it into the context window of the LLM. However, the relationship between retrievers and LLMs in a RAG is still under-investigated. Most existing work treats the retriever and the LLM as independent components and leaves a gap between retrieving human-"friendly" information and assembling a LLM-"friendly" context. In this work, we examine a novel bridge mechanism. We validate the ranking and selection assumptions of retrievers in the context of RAG and propose a framework that chains together supervised and reinforcement learning to train a bridge model that optimizes the connection between the retriever and the LLM. Empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in both question-answering and personalized generation tasks.

------------

`[2401.13170] CFMatch: Aligning Automated Answer Equivalence Evaluation with Expert Judgments For Open-Domain Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13170>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 19:37:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Zongxia Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 Jan 2024 01:30:25 UTC (100 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 19:37:18 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    [v3] Fri, 1 Mar 2024 15:12:08 UTC (100 KB)
    Zongxia Li, Ishani Mondal, Yijun Liang, Huy Nghiem, and Jordan Boyd-Graber

Question answering (QA) can only make progress if we know if an answer is correct, but for many of the most challenging and interesting QA examples, current evaluation metrics to determine answer equivalence (AE) often do not align with human judgments, particularly more verbose, free-form answers from large language models (LLM). There are two challenges: a lack of data and that models are too big: LLM-based scorers can correlate better with human judges, but this task has only been tested on limited QA datasets, and even when available, update of the model is limited because LLMs are large and often expensive. We rectify both of these issues by providing clear and consistent guidelines for evaluating AE in machine QA adopted from professional human QA contests. We also introduce a combination of standard evaluation and a more efficient, robust, and lightweight discriminate AE classifier-based matching method (CFMatch, smaller than 1 MB), trained and validated to more accurately evaluate answer correctness in accordance with adopted expert AE rules that are more aligned with human judgments.

------------

`[2402.08113] Addressing cognitive bias in medical language models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08113>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 23:45:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Samuel Schmidgall [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 23:08:37 UTC (20,246 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 17:52:45 UTC (20,246 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 23:45:43 UTC (20,246 KB)
    Samuel Schmidgall, Carl Harris, Ime Essien, Daniel Olshvang, Tawsifur Rahman, Ji Woong Kim, Rojin Ziaei, Jason Eshraghian, Peter Abadir, Rama Chellappa

There is increasing interest in the application large language models (LLMs) to the medical field, in part because of their impressive performance on medical exam questions. While promising, exam questions do not reflect the complexity of real patient-doctor interactions. In reality, physicians' decisions are shaped by many complex factors, such as patient compliance, personal experience, ethical beliefs, and cognitive bias. Taking a step toward understanding this, our hypothesis posits that when LLMs are confronted with clinical questions containing cognitive biases, they will yield significantly less accurate responses compared to the same questions presented without such biases. In this study, we developed BiasMedQA, a benchmark for evaluating cognitive biases in LLMs applied to medical tasks. Using BiasMedQA we evaluated six LLMs, namely GPT-4, Mixtral-8x70B, GPT-3.5, PaLM-2, Llama 2 70B-chat, and the medically specialized PMC Llama 13B. We tested these models on 1,273 questions from the US Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE) Steps 1, 2, and 3, modified to replicate common clinically-relevant cognitive biases. Our analysis revealed varying effects for biases on these LLMs, with GPT-4 standing out for its resilience to bias, in contrast to Llama 2 70B-chat and PMC Llama 13B, which were disproportionately affected by cognitive bias. Our findings highlight the critical need for bias mitigation in the development of medical LLMs, pointing towards safer and more reliable applications in healthcare.

------------

`[2402.08382] Punctuation Restoration Improves Structure Understanding without Supervision <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08382>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:35:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Junghyun Min [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 11:22:52 UTC (168 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:35:57 UTC (174 KB)
    Junghyun Min, Minho Lee, Woochul Lee, Yeonsoo Lee

Unsupervised learning objectives like language modeling and de-noising constitute a significant part in producing pre-trained models that perform various downstream applications from natural language understanding to conversational tasks. However, despite impressive generative capabilities of recent large language models, their abilities to capture syntactic or semantic structure within text lag behind. We hypothesize that the mismatch between linguistic performance and competence in machines is attributable to insufficient transfer of linguistic structure knowledge to computational systems with currently popular pre-training objectives. We show that punctuation restoration as a learning objective improves in- and out-of-distribution performance on structure-related tasks like named entity recognition, open information extraction, chunking, and part-of-speech tagging. Punctuation restoration is an effective learning objective that can improve structure understanding and yield a more robust structure-aware representations of natural language.

------------

`[2402.09742] AI Hospital: Interactive Evaluation and Collaboration of LLMs as Intern Doctors for Clinical Diagnosis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09742>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:25:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhihao Fan [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 06:46:48 UTC (9,452 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:25:25 UTC (9,452 KB)
    Zhihao Fan, Jialong Tang, Wei Chen, Siyuan Wang, Zhongyu Wei, Jun Xi, Fei Huang, Jingren Zhou

The incorporation of Large Language Models (LLMs) in healthcare marks a significant advancement. However, the application has predominantly been limited to discriminative and question-answering tasks, which does not fully leverage their interactive potential. To address this limitation, our paper presents AI Hospital, a framework designed to build a real-time interactive diagnosis environment. To simulate the procedure, we collect high-quality medical records to create patient, examiner, and medical director agents. AI Hospital is then utilized for the interactive evaluation and collaboration of LLMs. Initially, we create a Multi-View Medical Evaluation (MVME) benchmark where various LLMs serve as intern doctors for interactive diagnosis. Subsequently, to improve diagnostic accuracy, we introduce a collaborative mechanism that involves iterative discussions and a dispute resolution process under the supervision of the medical director. In our experiments, we validate the reliability of AI Hospital. The results not only explore the feasibility of apply LLMs in clinical consultation but also confirm the effectiveness of the dispute resolution focused collaboration method.

------------

`[2402.10567] InSaAF: Incorporating Safety through Accuracy and Fairness | Are LLMs ready for the Indian Legal Domain? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10567>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:16:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Sahil Girhepuje [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 10:54:10 UTC (2,276 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 15:16:14 UTC (2,276 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:16:49 UTC (2,276 KB)
    Yogesh Tripathi, Raghav Donakanti, Sahil Girhepuje, Ishan Kavathekar, Bhaskara Hanuma Vedula, Gokul S Krishnan, Shreya Goyal, Anmol Goel, Balaraman Ravindran, Ponnurangam Kumaraguru

Recent advancements in language technology and Artificial Intelligence have resulted in numerous Language Models being proposed to perform various tasks in the legal domain ranging from predicting judgments to generating summaries. Despite their immense potential, these models have been proven to learn and exhibit societal biases and make unfair predictions. In this study, we explore the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to perform legal tasks in the Indian landscape when social factors are involved. We present a novel metric, $\beta$-weighted $\textit{Legal Safety Score ($LSS_{\beta}$)}$, which encapsulates both the fairness and accuracy aspects of the LLM. We assess LLMs' safety by considering its performance in the $\textit{Binary Statutory Reasoning}$ task and its fairness exhibition with respect to various axes of disparities in the Indian society. Task performance and fairness scores of LLaMA and LLaMA--2 models indicate that the proposed $LSS_{\beta}$ metric can effectively determine the readiness of a model for safe usage in the legal sector. We also propose finetuning pipelines, utilising specialised legal datasets, as a potential method to mitigate bias and improve model safety. The finetuning procedures on LLaMA and LLaMA--2 models increase the $LSS_{\beta}$, improving their usability in the Indian legal domain. Our code is publicly released.

------------

`[2402.10790] In Search of Needles in a 11M Haystack: Recurrent Memory Finds What LLMs Miss <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10790>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:07:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuri Kuratov [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 16:15:01 UTC (6,329 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:07:42 UTC (7,140 KB)
    Yuri Kuratov, Aydar Bulatov, Petr Anokhin, Dmitry Sorokin, Artyom Sorokin, Mikhail Burtsev

This paper addresses the challenge of processing long documents using generative transformer models. To evaluate different approaches, we introduce BABILong, a new benchmark designed to assess model capabilities in extracting and processing distributed facts within extensive texts. Our evaluation, which includes benchmarks for GPT-4 and RAG, reveals that common methods are effective only for sequences up to $10^4$ elements. In contrast, fine-tuning GPT-2 with recurrent memory augmentations enables it to handle tasks involving up to $11\times 10^6$ elements. This achievement marks a substantial leap, as it is by far the longest input processed by any neural network model to date, demonstrating a significant improvement in the processing capabilities for long sequences.

------------

`[2402.11398] Reasoning before Comparison: LLM-Enhanced Semantic Similarity Metrics for Domain Specialized Text Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11398>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:23:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Shaochen Xu [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 22:46:44 UTC (1,626 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:23:42 UTC (911 KB)
    Shaochen Xu, Zihao Wu, Huaqin Zhao, Peng Shu, Zhengliang Liu, Wenxiong Liao, Sheng Li, Andrea Sikora, Tianming Liu, Xiang Li

In this study, we leverage LLM to enhance the semantic analysis and develop similarity metrics for texts, addressing the limitations of traditional unsupervised NLP metrics like ROUGE and BLEU. We develop a framework where LLMs such as GPT-4 are employed for zero-shot text identification and label generation for radiology reports, where the labels are then used as measurements for text similarity. By testing the proposed framework on the MIMIC data, we find that GPT-4 generated labels can significantly improve the semantic similarity assessment, with scores more closely aligned with clinical ground truth than traditional NLP metrics. Our work demonstrates the possibility of conducting semantic analysis of the text data using semi-quantitative reasoning results by the LLMs for highly specialized domains. While the framework is implemented for radiology report similarity analysis, its concept can be extended to other specialized domains as well.

------------

`[2402.11451] SciAgent: Tool-augmented Language Models for Scientific Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11451>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:04:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Yubo Ma [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 18 Feb 2024 04:19:44 UTC (755 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:04:49 UTC (755 KB)
    Yubo Ma, Zhibin Gou, Junheng Hao, Ruochen Xu, Shuohang Wang, Liangming Pan, Yujiu Yang, Yixin Cao, Aixin Sun, Hany Awadalla and Weizhu Chen

Scientific reasoning poses an excessive challenge for even the most advanced Large Language Models (LLMs). To make this task more practical and solvable for LLMs, we introduce a new task setting named tool-augmented scientific reasoning. This setting supplements LLMs with scalable toolsets, and shifts the focus from pursuing an omniscient problem solver to a proficient tool-user. To facilitate the research of such setting, we construct a tool-augmented training corpus named MathFunc which encompasses over 30,000 samples and roughly 6,000 tools. Building on MathFunc, we develop SciAgent to retrieve, understand and, if necessary, use tools for scientific problem solving. Additionally, we craft a benchmark, SciToolBench, spanning five scientific domains to evaluate LLMs' abilities with tool assistance. Extensive experiments on SciToolBench confirm the effectiveness of SciAgent. Notably, SciAgent-Mistral-7B surpasses other LLMs with the same size by more than 13% in absolute accuracy. Furthermore, SciAgent-DeepMath-7B shows much superior performance than ChatGPT.

------------

`[2402.12343] Emulated Disalignment: Safety Alignment for Large Language Models May Backfire! <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12343>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:29:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhanhui Zhou [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 18:16:51 UTC (471 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 16:29:18 UTC (471 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 3 Apr 2024 12:25:47 UTC (1,278 KB)
    Zhanhui Zhou, Jie Liu, Zhichen Dong, Jiaheng Liu, Chao Yang, Wanli Ouyang, Yu Qiao

Large language models (LLMs) need to undergo safety alignment to ensure safe conversations with humans. However, this paper introduces an inference-time attack method, demonstrating that safety alignment can be easily reversed to produce harmful language models without additional training. Specifically, this reversal is achieved by contrasting the output token distribution of a safety-aligned language model (e.g., Llama-2-chat) against its pre-trained version (e.g., Llama-2) so that the token predictions are shifted towards the opposite direction of alignment. We name this method emulated disalignment (ED) because it uses pure sampling to provably emulate (or "approximate") the result of fine-tuning the pre-trained model to minimize a safety reward. Our experiments with ED across three evaluation datasets and four model families (Llama-1, Llama-2, Mistral, and Alpaca) show that ED doubles the harmfulness of pre-trained models and outperforms strong baselines, achieving the highest harmful rate in 43 out of 48 evaluation subsets by a large margin. Eventually, given ED's need for language model output token distributions, which particularly compromises open-source models, our findings highlight the importance of reevaluating the practice of open-sourcing language models even after safety alignment.

------------

`[2402.12692] FormulaQA: A Question Answering Dataset for Formula-Based Numerical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12692>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:17:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiao Li [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 03:39:49 UTC (9,374 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:17:47 UTC (9,374 KB)
    Xiao Li, Sichen Liu, Bolin Zhu, Yin Zhu, Yiwei Liu, Gong Cheng

The application of formulas is a fundamental ability of humans when addressing numerical reasoning problems. However, existing numerical reasoning datasets seldom explicitly indicate the formulas employed during the reasoning steps. To bridge this gap, we propose a question answering dataset for formula-based numerical reasoning called FormulaQA, from junior high school physics examinations. We further conduct evaluations on LLMs with size ranging from 7B to over 100B parameters utilizing zero-shot and few-shot chain-of-thoughts methods and we explored the approach of using retrieval-augmented LLMs when providing an external formula database. We also fine-tune on smaller models with size not exceeding 2B. Our empirical findings underscore the significant potential for improvement in existing models when applied to our complex, formula-driven FormulaQA.

------------

`[2402.13043] Effective and Efficient Conversation Retrieval for Dialogue State Tracking with Implicit Text Summaries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13043>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:45:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Seanie Lee [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 14:31:17 UTC (9,027 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:45:50 UTC (9,027 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 20:06:52 UTC (9,029 KB)
    Seanie Lee, Jianpeng Cheng, Joris Driesen, Alexandru Coca, Anders Johannsen

Few-shot dialogue state tracking (DST) with Large Language Models (LLM) relies on an effective and efficient conversation retriever to find similar in-context examples for prompt learning. Previous works use raw dialogue context as search keys and queries, and a retriever is fine-tuned with annotated dialogues to achieve superior performance. However, the approach is less suited for scaling to new domains or new annotation languages, where fine-tuning data is unavailable. To address this problem, we handle the task of conversation retrieval based on text summaries of the conversations. A LLM-based conversation summarizer is adopted for query and key generation, which enables effective maximum inner product search. To avoid the extra inference cost brought by LLM-based conversation summarization, we further distill a light-weight conversation encoder which produces query embeddings without decoding summaries for test conversations. We validate our retrieval approach on MultiWOZ datasets with GPT-Neo-2.7B and LLaMA-7B/30B. The experimental results show a significant improvement over relevant baselines in real few-shot DST settings.

------------

`[2402.13184] What if LLMs Have Different World Views: Simulating Alien Civilizations with LLM-based Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13184>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:54:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Mingyu Jin [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 17:49:46 UTC (1,937 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 04:54:22 UTC (1,937 KB)
    Mingyu Jin, Beichen Wang, Zhaoqian Xue, Suiyuan Zhu, Wenyue Hua, Hua Tang, Kai Mei, Mengnan Du, Yongfeng Zhang

In this study, we introduce "CosmoAgent," an innovative artificial intelligence framework utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) to simulate complex interactions between human and extraterrestrial civilizations, with a special emphasis on Stephen Hawking's cautionary advice about not sending radio signals haphazardly into the universe. The goal is to assess the feasibility of peaceful coexistence while considering potential risks that could threaten well-intentioned civilizations. Employing mathematical models and state transition matrices, our approach quantitatively evaluates the development trajectories of civilizations, offering insights into future decision-making at critical points of growth and saturation. Furthermore, the paper acknowledges the vast diversity in potential living conditions across the universe, which could foster unique cosmologies, ethical codes, and worldviews among various civilizations. Recognizing the Earth-centric bias inherent in current LLM designs, we propose the novel concept of using LLMs with diverse ethical paradigms and simulating interactions between entities with distinct moral principles. This innovative research provides a new way to understand complex inter-civilizational dynamics, expanding our perspective while pioneering novel strategies for conflict resolution, crucial for preventing interstellar conflicts. We have also released the code and datasets to enable further academic investigation into this interesting area of research. The code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2306.08107] AutoML in the Age of Large Language Models: Current Challenges, Future Opportunities and Risks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08107>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:18:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Alexander Tornede [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Jun 2023 19:51:22 UTC (688 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 21 Aug 2023 15:01:46 UTC (519 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 11:18:20 UTC (619 KB)
    Alexander Tornede, Difan Deng, Theresa Eimer, Joseph Giovanelli, Aditya Mohan, Tim Ruhkopf, Sarah Segel, Daphne Theodorakopoulos, Tanja Tornede, Henning Wachsmuth, Marius Lindauer

The fields of both Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) have achieved remarkable results over the past years. In NLP, especially Large Language Models (LLMs) have experienced a rapid series of breakthroughs very recently. We envision that the two fields can radically push the boundaries of each other through tight integration. To showcase this vision, we explore the potential of a symbiotic relationship between AutoML and LLMs, shedding light on how they can benefit each other. In particular, we investigate both the opportunities to enhance AutoML approaches with LLMs from different perspectives and the challenges of leveraging AutoML to further improve LLMs. To this end, we survey existing work, and we critically assess risks. We strongly believe that the integration of the two fields has the potential to disrupt both fields, NLP and AutoML. By highlighting conceivable synergies, but also risks, we aim to foster further exploration at the intersection of AutoML and LLMs.

------------

`[2308.06912] CausalLM is not optimal for in-context learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.06912>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:48:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Nan Ding [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 14 Aug 2023 03:14:38 UTC (157 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 3 Sep 2023 00:31:07 UTC (155 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 22:48:06 UTC (169 KB)
    Nan Ding, Tomer Levinboim, Jialin Wu, Sebastian Goodman, Radu Soricut

Recent empirical evidence indicates that transformer based in-context learning performs better when using a prefix language model (prefixLM), in which in-context samples can all attend to each other, compared to causal language models (causalLM), which use auto-regressive attention that prohibits in-context samples to attend to future samples. While this result is intuitive, it is not understood from a theoretical perspective. In this paper we take a theoretical approach and analyze the convergence behavior of prefixLM and causalLM under a certain parameter construction. Our analysis shows that both LM types converge to their stationary points at a linear rate, but that while prefixLM converges to the optimal solution of linear regression, causalLM convergence dynamics follows that of an online gradient descent algorithm, which is not guaranteed to be optimal even as the number of samples grows infinitely. We supplement our theoretical claims with empirical experiments over synthetic and real tasks and using various types of transformers. Our experiments verify that causalLM consistently underperforms prefixLM in all settings.

------------

`[2308.14120] Large Language Models Streamline Automated Machine Learning for Clinical Studies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14120>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:35:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Soroosh Tayebi Arasteh [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 27 Aug 2023 14:28:38 UTC (749 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 29 Aug 2023 17:52:02 UTC (750 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 9 Oct 2023 18:01:12 UTC (1,622 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 20:07:50 UTC (1,340 KB)
    [v5] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 18:35:25 UTC (1,340 KB)
    Soroosh Tayebi Arasteh, Tianyu Han, Mahshad Lotfinia, Christiane Kuhl, Jakob Nikolas Kather, Daniel Truhn, Sven Nebelung

A knowledge gap persists between machine learning (ML) developers (e.g., data scientists) and practitioners (e.g., clinicians), hampering the full utilization of ML for clinical data analysis. We investigated the potential of the ChatGPT Advanced Data Analysis (ADA), an extension of GPT-4, to bridge this gap and perform ML analyses efficiently. Real-world clinical datasets and study details from large trials across various medical specialties were presented to ChatGPT ADA without specific guidance. ChatGPT ADA autonomously developed state-of-the-art ML models based on the original study's training data to predict clinical outcomes such as cancer development, cancer progression, disease complications, or biomarkers such as pathogenic gene sequences. Following the re-implementation and optimization of the published models, the head-to-head comparison of the ChatGPT ADA-crafted ML models and their respective manually crafted counterparts revealed no significant differences in traditional performance metrics (P>0.071). Strikingly, the ChatGPT ADA-crafted ML models often outperformed their counterparts. In conclusion, ChatGPT ADA offers a promising avenue to democratize ML in medicine by simplifying complex data analyses, yet should enhance, not replace, specialized training and resources, to promote broader applications in medical research and practice.

------------

`[2309.14681] Are Human-generated Demonstrations Necessary for In-context Learning? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14681>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:49:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiwei Li [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 26 Sep 2023 05:10:08 UTC (1,487 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 1 Oct 2023 02:52:00 UTC (1,615 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 26 Nov 2023 14:01:05 UTC (2,312 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 05:49:26 UTC (2,316 KB)
    Rui Li, Guoyin Wang, Jiwei Li

Despite the promising few-shot ability of large language models (LLMs), the standard paradigm of In-context Learning (ICL) suffers the disadvantages of susceptibility to selected demonstrations and the intricacy to generate these demonstrations. In this paper, we raise the fundamental question that whether human-generated demonstrations are necessary for ICL. To answer this question, we propose self-contemplation prompting strategy (SEC), a paradigm free from human-crafted demonstrations. The key point of SEC is that, instead of using hand-crafted examples as demonstrations in ICL, SEC asks LLMs to first create demonstrations on their own, based on which the final output is generated. SEC is a flexible framework and can be adapted to both the vanilla ICL and the chain-of-thought (CoT), but with greater ease: as the manual-generation process of both examples and rationale can be saved. Extensive experiments in arithmetic reasoning, commonsense reasoning, multi-task language understanding, and code generation benchmarks, show that SEC, which does not require hand-crafted demonstrations, significantly outperforms the zero-shot learning strategy, and achieves comparable results to ICL with hand-crafted demonstrations. This demonstrates that, for many tasks, contemporary LLMs possess a sufficient level of competence to exclusively depend on their own capacity for decision making, removing the need for external training data. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2312.02119] Tree of Attacks: Jailbreaking Black-Box LLMs Automatically <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02119>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:49:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Anay Mehrotra [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 4 Dec 2023 18:49:23 UTC (488 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:49:22 UTC (493 KB)
    Anay Mehrotra, Manolis Zampetakis, Paul Kassianik, Blaine Nelson, Hyrum Anderson, Yaron Singer, Amin Karbasi

While Large Language Models (LLMs) display versatile functionality, they continue to generate harmful, biased, and toxic content, as demonstrated by the prevalence of human-designed jailbreaks. In this work, we present Tree of Attacks with Pruning (TAP), an automated method for generating jailbreaks that only requires black-box access to the target LLM. TAP utilizes an LLM to iteratively refine candidate (attack) prompts using tree-of-thought reasoning until one of the generated prompts jailbreaks the target. Crucially, before sending prompts to the target, TAP assesses them and prunes the ones unlikely to result in jailbreaks. Using tree-of-thought reasoning allows TAP to navigate a large search space of prompts and pruning reduces the total number of queries sent to the target. In empirical evaluations, we observe that TAP generates prompts that jailbreak state-of-the-art LLMs (including GPT4 and GPT4-Turbo) for more than 80% of the prompts using only a small number of queries. Interestingly, TAP is also capable of jailbreaking LLMs protected by state-of-the-art guardrails, e.g., LlamaGuard. This significantly improves upon the previous state-of-the-art black-box method for generating jailbreaks.

------------

`[2402.07818] Differentially Private Zeroth-Order Methods for Scalable Large Language Model Finetuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07818>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:11:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhihao Liu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 17:24:15 UTC (292 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 06:11:02 UTC (292 KB)
    Z Liu, J Lou, W Bao, Z Qin, K Ren

Finetuning on task-specific datasets is a widely-embraced paradigm of harnessing the powerful capability of pretrained LLMs for various downstream tasks. Due to the popularity of LLMs finetuning and its accompanying privacy concerns, differentially private (DP) finetuning of pretrained LLMs has garnered increasing attention to safeguarding the privacy of task-specific datasets. Lying at the design core of DP LLM finetuning methods is the satisfactory tradeoff between privacy, utility, and scalability. Most existing methods build upon the seminal work of DP-SGD. Despite pushing the scalability of DP-SGD to its limit, DP-SGD-based finetuning methods are unfortunately limited by the inherent inefficiency of SGD. In this paper, we investigate the potential of DP zeroth-order methods for LLM pretraining, which avoids the scalability bottleneck of SGD by approximating the gradient with the more efficient zeroth-order gradient. Rather than treating the zeroth-order method as a drop-in replacement for SGD, this paper presents a comprehensive study both theoretically and empirically. First, we propose the stagewise DP zeroth-order method that dynamically schedules key hyperparameters. This design is grounded on the synergy between DP random perturbation and the gradient approximation error of the zeroth-order method, and its effect on finetuning trajectory. Second, we further enhance the scalability by reducing the trainable parameters that are identified by repurposing a data-free pruning technique requiring no additional data or extra privacy budget. We provide theoretical analysis for both proposed methods. We conduct extensive empirical analysis on both encoder-only masked language model and decoder-only autoregressive language model, achieving impressive results in terms of scalability and utility.

------------

`[2402.12399] Turn Waste into Worth: Rectifying Top-$k$ Router of MoE <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12399>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:33:12 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhiyuan Zeng [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 06:23:27 UTC (211 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 13:33:12 UTC (211 KB)
    Zhiyuan Zeng, Qipeng Guo, Zhaoye Fei, Zhangyue Yin, Yunhua Zhou, Linyang Li, Tianxiang Sun, Hang Yan, Dahua Lin, Xipeng Qiu

Sparse Mixture of Experts (MoE) models are popular for training large language models due to their computational efficiency. However, the commonly used top-$k$ routing mechanism suffers from redundancy computation and memory costs due to the unbalanced routing. Some experts are overflow, where the exceeding tokens are dropped. While some experts are vacant, which are padded with zeros, negatively impacting model performance. To address the dropped tokens and padding, we propose the Rectify-Router, comprising the Intra-GPU Rectification and the Fill-in Rectification. The Intra-GPU Rectification handles dropped tokens, efficiently routing them to experts within the GPU where they are located to avoid inter-GPU communication. The Fill-in Rectification addresses padding by replacing padding tokens with the tokens that have high routing scores. Our experimental results demonstrate that the Intra-GPU Rectification and the Fill-in Rectification effectively handle dropped tokens and padding, respectively. Furthermore, the combination of them achieves superior performance, surpassing the accuracy of the vanilla top-1 router by 4.7%.

------------

`[2311.02847] Kinematic-aware Prompting for Generalizable Articulated Object Manipulation with LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02847>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:27:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Wenke Xia [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 6 Nov 2023 03:26:41 UTC (6,872 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 8 Nov 2023 06:12:36 UTC (6,872 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 08:26:50 UTC (6,743 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 02:27:57 UTC (6,744 KB)
    Wenke Xia, Dong Wang, Xincheng Pang, Zhigang Wang, Bin Zhao, Di Hu, Xuelong Li

Generalizable articulated object manipulation is essential for home-assistant robots. Recent efforts focus on imitation learning from demonstrations or reinforcement learning in simulation, however, due to the prohibitive costs of real-world data collection and precise object simulation, it still remains challenging for these works to achieve broad adaptability across diverse articulated objects. Recently, many works have tried to utilize the strong in-context learning ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to achieve generalizable robotic manipulation, but most of these researches focus on high-level task planning, sidelining low-level robotic control. In this work, building on the idea that the kinematic structure of the object determines how we can manipulate it, we propose a kinematic-aware prompting framework that prompts LLMs with kinematic knowledge of objects to generate low-level motion trajectory waypoints, supporting various object manipulation. To effectively prompt LLMs with the kinematic structure of different objects, we design a unified kinematic knowledge parser, which represents various articulated objects as a unified textual description containing kinematic joints and contact location. Building upon this unified description, a kinematic-aware planner model is proposed to generate precise 3D manipulation waypoints via a designed kinematic-aware chain-of-thoughts prompting method. Our evaluation spanned 48 instances across 16 distinct categories, revealing that our framework not only outperforms traditional methods on 8 seen categories but also shows a powerful zero-shot capability for 8 unseen articulated object categories. Moreover, the real-world experiments on 7 different object categories prove our framework's adaptability in practical scenarios. Code is released at this https URL.

------------

`[2312.14647] Towards Message Brokers for Generative AI: Survey, Challenges, and Opportunities <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14647>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:41:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Lauri Lovn [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 22 Dec 2023 12:30:18 UTC (1,108 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 07:41:10 UTC (1,364 KB)
    Alaa Saleh, Roberto Morabito, Sasu Tarkoma, Susanna Pirttikangas and Lauri Lov\'en

In today's digital world, Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) such as Large Language Models (LLMs) is becoming increasingly prevalent, extending its reach across diverse applications. This surge in adoption has sparked a significant increase in demand for data-centric GenAI models, highlighting the necessity for robust data communication infrastructures. Central to this need are message brokers, which serve as essential channels for data transfer within various system components. This survey aims to delve into a comprehensive analysis of traditional and modern message brokers, offering a comparative study of prevalent platforms. Our study considers numerous criteria including, but not limited to, open-source availability, integrated monitoring tools, message prioritization mechanisms, capabilities for parallel processing, reliability, distribution and clustering functionalities, authentication processes, data persistence strategies, fault tolerance, and scalability. Furthermore, we explore the intrinsic constraints that the design and operation of each message broker might impose, recognizing that these limitations are crucial in understanding their real-world applicability. Finally, this study examines the enhancement of message broker mechanisms specifically for GenAI contexts, emphasizing the criticality of developing a versatile message broker framework. Such a framework would be poised for quick adaptation, catering to the dynamic and growing demands of GenAI in the foreseeable future. Through this dual-pronged approach, we intend to contribute a foundational compendium that can guide future innovations and infrastructural advancements in the realm of GenAI data communication.

------------

`[2402.03781] MolTC: Towards Molecular Relational Modeling In Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03781>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:03:13 GMT
    Submission history From: Junfeng Fang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:51:56 UTC (7,820 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 01:54:54 UTC (7,844 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 04:28:48 UTC (7,846 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 16:39:46 UTC (7,849 KB)
    [v5] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 12:03:13 UTC (7,853 KB)
    Junfeng Fang, Shuai Zhang, Chang Wu, Zhengyi Yang, Zhiyuan Liu, Sihang Li, Kun Wang, Wenjie Du and Xiang Wang

Molecular Relational Learning (MRL), aiming to understand interactions between molecular pairs, plays a pivotal role in advancing biochemical research. Recently, the adoption of large language models (LLMs), known for their vast knowledge repositories and advanced logical inference capabilities, has emerged as a promising way for efficient and effective MRL. Despite their potential, these methods predominantly rely on the textual data, thus not fully harnessing the wealth of structural information inherent in molecular graphs. Moreover, the absence of a unified framework exacerbates the issue of information underutilization, as it hinders the sharing of interaction mechanism learned across diverse datasets. To address these challenges, this work proposes a novel LLM-based multi-modal framework for Molecular inTeraction prediction following Chain-of-Thought (CoT) theory, termed MolTC, which effectively integrate graphical information of two molecules in pair. For achieving a unified MRL, MolTC innovatively develops a dynamic parameter-sharing strategy for cross-dataset information sharing. Moreover, to train MolTC efficiently, we introduce a Multi-hierarchical CoT concept to refine its training paradigm, and conduct a comprehensive Molecular Interactive Instructions dataset for the development of biochemical LLMs involving MRL. Our experiments, conducted across various datasets involving over 4,000,000 molecular pairs, exhibit the superiority of our method over current GNN and LLM-based baselines. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.05650] Rocks Coding, Not Development--A Human-Centric, Experimental Evaluation of LLM-Supported SE Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05650>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:16:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Huilong Ning [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 8 Feb 2024 13:07:31 UTC (1,239 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 9 Feb 2024 07:20:18 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    [v3] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 08:16:34 UTC (1,285 KB)
    Wei Wang, Huilong Ning, Gaowei Zhang, Libo Liu and Yi Wang

Recently, large language models (LLM) based generative AI has been gaining momentum for their impressive high-quality performances in multiple domains, particularly after the release of the ChatGPT. Many believe that they have the potential to perform general-purpose problem-solving in software development and replace human software developers. Nevertheless, there are in a lack of serious investigation into the capability of these LLM techniques in fulfilling software development tasks. In a controlled 2 x 2 between-subject experiment with 109 participants, we examined whether and to what degree working with ChatGPT was helpful in the coding task and typical software development task and how people work with ChatGPT. We found that while ChatGPT performed well in solving simple coding problems, its performance in supporting typical software development tasks was not that good. We also observed the interactions between participants and ChatGPT and found the relations between the interactions and the outcomes. Our study thus provides first-hand insights into using ChatGPT to fulfill software engineering tasks with real-world developers and motivates the need for novel interaction mechanisms that help developers effectively work with large language models to achieve desired outcomes.

------------

`[2402.10980] ChemReasoner: Heuristic Search over a Large Language Model's Knowledge Space using Quantum-Chemical Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10980>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:34:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Henry Sprueill [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 21:33:07 UTC (14,570 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 17:34:43 UTC (14,570 KB)
    Henry W. Sprueill, Carl Edwards, Khushbu Agarwal, Mariefel V. Olarte, Udishnu Sanyal, Conrad Johnston, Hongbin Liu, Heng Ji, Sutanay Choudhury

The discovery of new catalysts is essential for the design of new and more efficient chemical processes in order to transition to a sustainable future. We introduce an AI-guided computational screening framework unifying linguistic reasoning with quantum-chemistry based feedback from 3D atomistic representations. Our approach formulates catalyst discovery as an uncertain environment where an agent actively searches for highly effective catalysts via the iterative combination of large language model (LLM)-derived hypotheses and atomistic graph neural network (GNN)-derived feedback. Identified catalysts in intermediate search steps undergo structural evaluation based on spatial orientation, reaction pathways, and stability. Scoring functions based on adsorption energies and barriers steer the exploration in the LLM's knowledge space toward energetically favorable, high-efficiency catalysts. We introduce planning methods that automatically guide the exploration without human input, providing competitive performance against expert-enumerated chemical descriptor-based implementations. By integrating language-guided reasoning with computational chemistry feedback, our work pioneers AI-accelerated, trustworthy catalyst discovery.

------------

`[2402.12391] Toward a Team of AI-made Scientists for Scientific Discovery from Gene Expression Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12391>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:42:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Haoyang Liu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 06:30:12 UTC (369 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:42:32 UTC (369 KB)
    Haoyang Liu, Yijiang Li, Jinglin Jian, Yuxuan Cheng, Jianrong Lu, Shuyi Guo, Jinglei Zhu, Mianchen Zhang, Miantong Zhang, Haohan Wang

Machine learning has emerged as a powerful tool for scientific discovery, enabling researchers to extract meaningful insights from complex datasets. For instance, it has facilitated the identification of disease-predictive genes from gene expression data, significantly advancing healthcare. However, the traditional process for analyzing such datasets demands substantial human effort and expertise for the data selection, processing, and analysis. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel framework, a Team of AI-made Scientists (TAIS), designed to streamline the scientific discovery pipeline. TAIS comprises simulated roles, including a project manager, data engineer, and domain expert, each represented by a Large Language Model (LLM). These roles collaborate to replicate the tasks typically performed by data scientists, with a specific focus on identifying disease-predictive genes. Furthermore, we have curated a benchmark dataset to assess TAIS's effectiveness in gene identification, demonstrating our system's potential to significantly enhance the efficiency and scope of scientific exploration. Our findings represent a solid step towards automating scientific discovery through large language models.
