240207
========

`[2402.03375] BetterV: Controlled Verilog Generation with Discriminative Guidance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03375>`__

::

    Sat, 3 Feb 2024 08:00:12 GMT
    Zehua Pei, Hui-Ling Zhen, Mingxuan Yuan, Yu Huang, Bei Yu

Due to the growing complexity of modern Integrated Circuits (ICs), there is a need for automated circuit design methods. Recent years have seen rising research in hardware design language generation to facilitate the design process. In this work, we propose a Verilog generation framework, BetterV, which fine-tunes the large language models (LLMs) on processed domain-specific datasets and incorporates generative discriminators for guidance on particular design demands. The Verilog modules are collected, filtered and processed from internet to form a clean and abundant dataset. Instruct-tuning methods are specially designed to fine-tuned the LLMs to understand the knowledge about Verilog. Furthermore, data are augmented to enrich the training set and also used to train a generative discriminator on particular downstream task, which leads a guidance for the LLMs to optimize the Verilog implementation. BetterV has the ability to generate syntactically and functionally correct Verilog, which can outperform GPT-4 on the VerilogEval-machine benchmark. With the help of task-specific generative discriminator, BetterV can achieve remarkable improvement on various electronic design automation (EDA) downstream tasks, including the netlist node reduction for synthesis and verification runtime reduction with Boolean Satisfiability (SAT) solving.

------------

`[2402.03494] Beyond Text: Improving LLM's Decision Making for Robot Navigation via Vocal Cues <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03494>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 20:11:56 GMT
    Xingpeng Sun, Haoming Meng, Souradip Chakraborty, Amrit Singh Bedi, Aniket Bera

This work highlights a critical shortcoming in text-based Large Language Models (LLMs) used for human-robot interaction, demonstrating that text alone as a conversation modality falls short in such applications. While LLMs excel in processing text in these human conversations, they struggle with the nuances of verbal instructions in scenarios like social navigation, where ambiguity and uncertainty can erode trust in robotic and other AI systems. We can address this shortcoming by moving beyond text and additionally focusing on the paralinguistic features of these audio responses. These features are the aspects of spoken communication that do not involve the literal wording (lexical content) but convey meaning and nuance through how something is said.
We present "Beyond Text"; an approach that improves LLM decision-making by integrating audio transcription along with a subsection of these features, which focus on the affect and more relevant in human-robot conversations. This approach not only achieves a 70.26% winning rate, outperforming existing LLMs by 48.30%, but also enhances robustness against token manipulation adversarial attacks, highlighted by a 22.44% less decrease ratio than the text-only language model in winning rate. "Beyond Text" marks an advancement in social robot navigation and broader Human-Robot interactions, seamlessly integrating text-based guidance with human-audio-informed language models.

------------

`[2402.03507] Neural networks for abstraction and reasoning: Towards broad generalization in machines <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03507>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 20:48:57 GMT
    Mikel Bober-Irizar, Soumya Banerjee

For half a century, artificial intelligence research has attempted to reproduce the human qualities of abstraction and reasoning - creating computer systems that can learn new concepts from a minimal set of examples, in settings where humans find this easy. While specific neural networks are able to solve an impressive range of problems, broad generalisation to situations outside their training data has proved elusive.In this work, we look at several novel approaches for solving the Abstraction & Reasoning Corpus (ARC), a dataset of abstract visual reasoning tasks introduced to test algorithms on broad generalization. Despite three international competitions with $100,000 in prizes, the best algorithms still fail to solve a majority of ARC tasks and rely on complex hand-crafted rules, without using machine learning at all. We revisit whether recent advances in neural networks allow progress on this task.
First, we adapt the DreamCoder neurosymbolic reasoning solver to ARC.
DreamCoder automatically writes programs in a bespoke domain-specific language to perform reasoning, using a neural network to mimic human intuition. We present the Perceptual Abstraction and Reasoning Language (PeARL) language, which allows DreamCoder to solve ARC tasks, and propose a new recognition model that allows us to significantly improve on the previous best implementation.We also propose a new encoding and augmentation scheme that allows large language models (LLMs) to solve ARC tasks, and find that the largest models can solve some ARC tasks. LLMs are able to solve a different group of problems to state-of-the-art solvers, and provide an interesting way to complement other approaches. We perform an ensemble analysis, combining models to achieve better results than any system alone. Finally, we publish the arckit Python library to make future research on ARC easier.

------------

`[2402.03607] Improving Contextual Congruence Across Modalities for Effective Multimodal Marketing using Knowledge-infused Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03607>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 00:51:27 GMT
    Trilok Padhi, Ugur Kursuncu, Yaman Kumar, Valerie L. Shalin, Lane Peterson Fronczek

The prevalence of smart devices with the ability to capture moments in multiple modalities has enabled users to experience multimodal information online. However, large Language (LLMs) and Vision models (LVMs) are still limited in capturing holistic meaning with cross-modal semantic relationships.
Without explicit, common sense knowledge (e.g., as a knowledge graph), Visual Language Models (VLMs) only learn implicit representations by capturing high-level patterns in vast corpora, missing essential contextual cross-modal cues. In this work, we design a framework to couple explicit commonsense knowledge in the form of knowledge graphs with large VLMs to improve the performance of a downstream task, predicting the effectiveness of multi-modal marketing campaigns. While the marketing application provides a compelling metric for assessing our methods, our approach enables the early detection of likely persuasive multi-modal campaigns and the assessment and augmentation of marketing theory.

------------

`[2402.03618] Comparing Abstraction in Humans and Large Language Models Using Multimodal Serial Reproduction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03618>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:07:56 GMT
    Sreejan Kumar, Raja Marjieh, Byron Zhang, Declan Campbell, Michael Y. Hu, Umang Bhatt, Brenden Lake, Thomas L. Griffiths

Humans extract useful abstractions of the world from noisy sensory data.
Serial reproduction allows us to study how people construe the world through a paradigm similar to the game of telephone, where one person observes a stimulus and reproduces it for the next to form a chain of reproductions. Past serial reproduction experiments typically employ a single sensory modality, but humans often communicate abstractions of the world to each other through language. To investigate the effect language on the formation of abstractions, we implement a novel multimodal serial reproduction framework by asking people who receive a visual stimulus to reproduce it in a linguistic format, and vice versa. We ran unimodal and multimodal chains with both humans and GPT-4 and find that adding language as a modality has a larger effect on human reproductions than GPT-4's.
This suggests human visual and linguistic representations are more dissociable than those of GPT-4.

------------

`[2402.03620] Self-Discover: Large Language Models Self-Compose Reasoning Structures <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03620>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:13:53 GMT
    Pei Zhou, Jay Pujara, Xiang Ren, Xinyun Chen, Heng-Tze Cheng, Quoc V. Le, Ed H. Chi, Denny Zhou, Swaroop Mishra, Huaixiu Steven Zheng

We introduce SELF-DISCOVER, a general framework for LLMs to self-discover the task-intrinsic reasoning structures to tackle complex reasoning problems that are challenging for typical prompting methods. Core to the framework is a self-discovery process where LLMs select multiple atomic reasoning modules such as critical thinking and step-by-step thinking, and compose them into an explicit reasoning structure for LLMs to follow during decoding. SELF-DISCOVER substantially improves GPT-4 and PaLM 2's performance on challenging reasoning benchmarks such as BigBench-Hard, grounded agent reasoning, and MATH, by as much as 32% compared to Chain of Thought (CoT). Furthermore, SELF-DISCOVER outperforms inference-intensive methods such as CoT-Self-Consistency by more than 20%, while requiring 10-40x fewer inference compute. Finally, we show that the self-discovered reasoning structures are universally applicable across model families: from PaLM 2-L to GPT-4, and from GPT-4 to Llama2, and share commonalities with human reasoning patterns.

------------

`[2402.03755] QuantAgent: Seeking Holy Grail in Trading by Self-Improving Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03755>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:47:14 GMT
    Saizhuo Wang, Hang Yuan, Lionel M. Ni, Jian Guo

Autonomous agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) that devise plans and tackle real-world challenges have gained prominence.However, tailoring these agents for specialized domains like quantitative investment remains a formidable task. The core challenge involves efficiently building and integrating a domain-specific knowledge base for the agent's learning process.
This paper introduces a principled framework to address this challenge, comprising a two-layer loop.In the inner loop, the agent refines its responses by drawing from its knowledge base, while in the outer loop, these responses are tested in real-world scenarios to automatically enhance the knowledge base with new insights.We demonstrate that our approach enables the agent to progressively approximate optimal behavior with provable efficiency.Furthermore, we instantiate this framework through an autonomous agent for mining trading signals named QuantAgent. Empirical results showcase QuantAgent's capability in uncovering viable financial signals and enhancing the accuracy of financial forecasts.

------------

`[2402.03822] RevOrder: A Novel Method for Enhanced Arithmetic in Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03822>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:10:35 GMT
    Si Shen, Peijun Shen, Danhao Zhu

This paper presents RevOrder, a novel technique aimed at improving arithmetic operations in large language models (LLMs) by reversing the output digits in addition, subtraction, and n-digit by 1-digit (nD by 1D) multiplication tasks.
Our method significantly reduces the Count of Sequential Intermediate Digits (CSID) to $\mathcal{O}(1)$, a new metric we introduce to assess equation complexity. Through comprehensive testing, RevOrder not only achieves perfect accuracy in basic arithmetic operations but also substantially boosts LLM performance in division tasks, particularly with large numbers where traditional models struggle. Implementation of RevOrder is cost-effective for both training and inference phases. Moreover, applying RevOrder to fine-tune the LLaMA2-7B model on the GSM8K math task results in a considerable improvement, reducing equation calculation errors by 46% and increasing overall scores from 41.6 to 44.4.

------------

`[2402.03824] A call for embodied AI <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03824>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:11:20 GMT
    Giuseppe Paolo, Jonas Gonzalez-Billandon, Bal\'azs K\'egl

We propose Embodied AI as the next fundamental step in the pursuit of Artificial General Intelligence, juxtaposing it against current AI advancements, particularly Large Language Models. We traverse the evolution of the embodiment concept across diverse fields - philosophy, psychology, neuroscience, and robotics - to highlight how EAI distinguishes itself from the classical paradigm of static learning. By broadening the scope of Embodied AI, we introduce a theoretical framework based on cognitive architectures, emphasizing perception, action, memory, and learning as essential components of an embodied agent. This framework is aligned with Friston's active inference principle, offering a comprehensive approach to EAI development. Despite the progress made in the field of AI, substantial challenges, such as the formulation of a novel AI learning theory and the innovation of advanced hardware, persist. Our discussion lays down a foundational guideline for future Embodied AI research. Highlighting the importance of creating Embodied AI agents capable of seamless communication, collaboration, and coexistence with humans and other intelligent entities within real-world environments, we aim to steer the AI community towards addressing the multifaceted challenges and seizing the opportunities that lie ahead in the quest for AGI.

------------

`[2402.03962] Position Paper: Against Spurious Sparks-Dovelating Inflated AI Claims <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03962>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 12:42:21 GMT
    Patrick Altmeyer, Andrew M. Demetriou, Antony Bartlett, Cynthia C. S. Liem

Humans have a tendency to see 'human'-like qualities in objects around them.
We name our cars, and talk to pets and even household appliances, as if they could understand us as other humans do. This behavior, called anthropomorphism, is also seeing traction in Machine Learning (ML), where human-like intelligence is claimed to be perceived in Large Language Models (LLMs). In this position paper, considering professional incentives, human biases, and general methodological setups, we discuss how the current search for Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) is a perfect storm for over-attributing human-like qualities to LLMs. In several experiments, we demonstrate that the discovery of human-interpretable patterns in latent spaces should not be a surprising outcome. Also in consideration of common AI portrayal in the media, we call for the academic community to exercise extra caution, and to be extra aware of principles of academic integrity, in interpreting and communicating about AI research outcomes.

------------

`[2402.04232] Can Generative Agents Predict Emotion? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04232>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:39:43 GMT
    Ciaran Regan, Nanami Iwahashi, Shogo Tanaka, Mizuki Oka

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated a number of human-like abilities, however the empathic understanding and emotional state of LLMs is yet to be aligned to that of humans. In this work, we investigate how the emotional state of generative LLM agents evolves as they perceive new events, introducing a novel architecture in which new experiences are compared to past memories. Through this comparison, the agent gains the ability to understand new experiences in context, which according to the appraisal theory of emotion is vital in emotion creation. First, the agent perceives new experiences as time series text data. After perceiving each new input, the agent generates a summary of past relevant memories, referred to as the norm, and compares the new experience to this norm. Through this comparison we can analyse how the agent reacts to the new experience in context. The PANAS, a test of affect, is administered to the agent, capturing the emotional state of the agent after the perception of the new event. Finally, the new experience is then added to the agents memory to be used in the creation of future norms. By creating multiple experiences in natural language from emotionally charged situations, we test the proposed architecture on a wide range of scenarios. The mixed results suggests that introducing context can occasionally improve the emotional alignment of the agent, but further study and comparison with human evaluators is necessary. We hope that this paper is another step towards the alignment of generative agents.

------------

`[2402.03339] Interplay of Semantic Communication and Knowledge Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03339>`__

::

    Thu, 18 Jan 2024 06:11:06 GMT
    Fei Ni, Bingyan Wang, Rongpeng Li, Zhifeng Zhao and Honggang Zhang

In the swiftly advancing realm of communication technologies, Semantic Communication (SemCom), which emphasizes knowledge understanding and processing, has emerged as a hot topic. By integrating artificial intelligence technologies, SemCom facilitates a profound understanding, analysis and transmission of communication content. In this chapter, we clarify the means of knowledge learning in SemCom with a particular focus on the utilization of Knowledge Graphs (KGs). Specifically, we first review existing efforts that combine SemCom with knowledge learning. Subsequently, we introduce a KG-enhanced SemCom system, wherein the receiver is carefully calibrated to leverage knowledge from its static knowledge base for ameliorating the decoding performance. Contingent upon this framework, we further explore potential approaches that can empower the system to operate in evolving knowledge base more effectively. Furthermore, we investigate the possibility of integration with Large Language Models (LLMs) for data augmentation, offering additional perspective into the potential implementation means of SemCom. Extensive numerical results demonstrate that the proposed framework yields superior performance on top of the KG-enhanced decoding and manifests its versatility under different scenarios.

------------

`[2402.03435] Psychological Assessments with Large Language Models: A Privacy-Focused and Cost-Effective Approach <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03435>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 19:00:02 GMT
    Sergi Blanco-Cuaresma

This study explores the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) to analyze text comments from Reddit users, aiming to achieve two primary objectives: firstly, to pinpoint critical excerpts that support a predefined psychological assessment of suicidal risk; and secondly, to summarize the material to substantiate the preassigned suicidal risk level. The work is circumscribed to the use of "open-source" LLMs that can be run locally, thereby enhancing data privacy. Furthermore, it prioritizes models with low computational requirements, making it accessible to both individuals and institutions operating on limited computing budgets. The implemented strategy only relies on a carefully crafted prompt and a grammar to guide the LLM's text completion.
Despite its simplicity, the evaluation metrics show outstanding results, making it a valuable privacy-focused and cost-effective approach. This work is part of the Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology (CLPsych) 2024 shared task.

------------

`[2402.03483] SWAG: Storytelling With Action Guidance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03483>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 19:55:06 GMT
    Zeeshan Patel, Karim El-Refai, Jonathan Pei, Tianle Li

Automated long-form story generation typically employs long-context large language models (LLMs) for one-shot creation, which can produce cohesive but not necessarily engaging content. We introduce Storytelling With Action Guidance (SWAG), a novel approach to storytelling with LLMs. Our approach reduces story writing to a search problem through a two-model feedback loop: one LLM generates story content, and another auxiliary LLM is used to choose the next best "action" to steer the story's future direction. Our results show that SWAG can substantially outperform previous end-to-end story generation techniques when evaluated by GPT-4 and through human evaluation, and our SWAG pipeline using only open-source models surpasses GPT-3.5-Turbo.

------------

`[2402.03509] Evaluating the Factuality of Zero-shot Summarizers Across Varied Domains <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03509>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 20:51:11 GMT
    Sanjana Ramprasad, Kundan Krishna, Zachary C Lipton and Byron C Wallace

Recent work has shown that large language models (LLMs) are capable of generating summaries zero-shot (i.e., without explicit supervision) that, under human assessment, are often comparable or even preferred to manually composed reference summaries. However, this prior work has focussed almost exclusively on evaluating news article summarization. How do zero-shot summarizers perform in other (potentially more specialized) domains? In this work we evaluate zero-shot generated summaries across specialized domains including biomedical articles, and legal bills (in addition to standard news benchmarks for reference). We focus especially on the factuality of outputs. We acquire annotations from domain experts to identify inconsistencies in summaries and systematically categorize these errors. We analyze whether the prevalence of a given domain in the pretraining corpus affects extractiveness and faithfulness of generated summaries of articles in this domain. We release all collected annotations to facilitate additional research toward measuring and realizing factually accurate summarization, beyond news articles. The dataset can be downloaded from https://github.com/sanjanaramprasad/zero_shot_faceval_domains

------------

`[2402.03519] Resolving Transcription Ambiguity in Spanish: A Hybrid Acoustic-Lexical System for Punctuation Restoration <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03519>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 21:05:35 GMT
    Xiliang Zhu, Chia-Tien Chang, Shayna Gardiner, David Rossouw, Jonas Robertson

Punctuation restoration is a crucial step after Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems to enhance transcript readability and facilitate subsequent NLP tasks. Nevertheless, conventional lexical-based approaches are inadequate for solving the punctuation restoration task in Spanish, where ambiguity can be often found between unpunctuated declaratives and questions. In this study, we propose a novel hybrid acoustic-lexical punctuation restoration system for Spanish transcription, which consolidates acoustic and lexical signals through a modular process. Our experiment results show that the proposed system can effectively improve F1 score of question marks and overall punctuation restoration on both public and internal Spanish conversational datasets.
Additionally, benchmark comparison against LLMs (Large Language Model) indicates the superiority of our approach in accuracy, reliability and latency.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that the Word Error Rate (WER) of the ASR module also benefits from our proposed system.

------------

`[2402.03597] Identifying Reasons for Contraceptive Switching from Real-World Data Using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03597>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 00:14:53 GMT
    Brenda Y. Miao, Christopher YK Williams, Ebenezer Chinedu-Eneh, Travis Zack, Emily Alsentzer, Atul J. Butte, Irene Y. Chen

Prescription contraceptives play a critical role in supporting women's reproductive health. With nearly 50 million women in the United States using contraceptives, understanding the factors that drive contraceptives selection and switching is of significant interest. However, many factors related to medication switching are often only captured in unstructured clinical notes and can be difficult to extract. Here, we evaluate the zero-shot abilities of a recently developed large language model, GPT-4 (via HIPAA-compliant Microsoft Azure API), to identify reasons for switching between classes of contraceptives from the UCSF Information Commons clinical notes dataset. We demonstrate that GPT-4 can accurately extract reasons for contraceptive switching, outperforming baseline BERT-based models with microF1 scores of 0.849 and 0.881 for contraceptive start and stop extraction, respectively. Human evaluation of GPT-4-extracted reasons for switching showed 91.4% accuracy, with minimal hallucinations. Using extracted reasons, we identified patient preference, adverse events, and insurance as key reasons for switching using unsupervised topic modeling approaches. Notably, we also showed using our approach that "weight gain/mood change" and "insurance coverage" are disproportionately found as reasons for contraceptive switching in specific demographic populations. Our code and supplemental data are available at https://github.com/BMiao10/contraceptive-switching.

------------

`[2402.03616] Leveraging Large Language Models for Hybrid Workplace Decision Support <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03616>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:05:14 GMT
    Yujin Kim, Chin-Chia Hsu

Large Language Models (LLMs) hold the potential to perform a variety of text processing tasks and provide textual explanations for proposed actions or decisions. In the era of hybrid work, LLMs can provide intelligent decision support for workers who are designing their hybrid work plans. In particular, they can offer suggestions and explanations to workers balancing numerous decision factors, thereby enhancing their work experience. In this paper, we present a decision support model for workspaces in hybrid work environments, leveraging the reasoning skill of LLMs. We first examine LLM's capability of making suitable workspace suggestions. We find that its reasoning extends beyond the guidelines in the prompt and the LLM can manage the trade-off among the available resources in the workspaces. We conduct an extensive user study to understand workers' decision process for workspace choices and evaluate the effectiveness of the system. We observe that a worker's decision could be influenced by the LLM's suggestions and explanations. The participants in our study find the system to be convenient, regardless of whether reasons are provided or not. Our results show that employees can benefit from the LLM-empowered system for their workspace selection in hybrid workplace.

------------

`[2402.03627] Partially Recentralization Softmax Loss for Vision-Language Models Robustness <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03627>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:44:38 GMT
    Hao Wang, Xin Zhang, Jinzhe Jiang, Yaqian Zhao and Chen Li

As Large Language Models make a breakthrough in natural language processing tasks (NLP), multimodal technique becomes extremely popular. However, it has been shown that multimodal NLP are vulnerable to adversarial attacks, where the outputs of a model can be dramatically changed by a perturbation to the input.
While several defense techniques have been proposed both in computer vision and NLP models, the multimodal robustness of models have not been fully explored.
In this paper, we study the adversarial robustness provided by modifying loss function of pre-trained multimodal models, by restricting top K softmax outputs. Based on the evaluation and scoring, our experiments show that after a fine-tuning, adversarial robustness of pre-trained models can be significantly improved, against popular attacks. Further research should be studying, such as output diversity, generalization and the robustness-performance trade-off of this kind of loss functions. Our code will be available after this paper is accepted

------------

`[2402.03628] Professional Agents -- Evolving Large Language Models into Autonomous Experts with Human-Level Competencies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03628>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:48:53 GMT
    Zhixuan Chu, Yan Wang, Feng Zhu, Lu Yu, Longfei Li, Jinjie Gu

The advent of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, PaLM, and GPT-4 has catalyzed remarkable advances in natural language processing, demonstrating human-like language fluency and reasoning capacities. This position paper introduces the concept of Professional Agents (PAgents), an application framework harnessing LLM capabilities to create autonomous agents with controllable, specialized, interactive, and professional-level competencies. We posit that PAgents can reshape professional services through continuously developed expertise. Our proposed PAgents framework entails a tri-layered architecture for genesis, evolution, and synergy: a base tool layer, a middle agent layer, and a top synergy layer. This paper aims to spur discourse on promising real-world applications of LLMs. We argue the increasing sophistication and integration of PAgents could lead to AI systems exhibiting professional mastery over complex domains, serving critical needs, and potentially achieving artificial general intelligence.

------------

`[2402.03667] Large Language Models as an Indirect Reasoner: Contrapositive and Contradiction for Automated Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03667>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 03:41:12 GMT
    Yanfang Zhang, Yiliu Sun, Yibing Zhan, Dapeng Tao, Dacheng Tao, Chen Gong

Recently, increasing attention has been focused drawn on to improve the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to perform complex reasoning. However, previous methods, such as Chain-of-Thought and Self-Consistency, mainly follow Direct Reasoning (DR) frameworks, so they will meet difficulty in solving numerous real-world tasks which can hardly be solved via DR. Therefore, to strengthen the reasoning power of LLMs, this paper proposes a novel Indirect Reasoning (IR) method that employs the logic of contrapositives and contradictions to tackle IR tasks such as factual reasoning and mathematic proof. Specifically, our methodology comprises two steps. Firstly, we leverage the logical equivalence of contrapositive to augment the data and rules to enhance the comprehensibility of LLMs. Secondly, we design a set of prompt templates to trigger LLMs to conduct IR based on proof by contradiction that is logically equivalent to the original DR process. Our IR method is simple yet effective and can be straightforwardly integrated with existing DR methods to further boost the reasoning abilities of LLMs. The experimental results on popular LLMs, such as GPT-3.5-turbo and Gemini-pro, show that our IR method enhances the overall accuracy of factual reasoning by 27.33% and mathematical proof by 31.43%, when compared with traditional DR methods. Moreover, the methods combining IR and DR significantly outperform the methods solely using IR or DR, further demonstrating the effectiveness of our strategy.

------------

`[2402.03686] Minds versus Machines: Rethinking Entailment Verification with Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03686>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 04:14:09 GMT
    Soumya Sanyal, Tianyi Xiao, Jiacheng Liu, Wenya Wang, Xiang Ren

Humans make numerous inferences in text comprehension to understand discourse. This paper aims to understand the commonalities and disparities in the inference judgments between humans and state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs). Leveraging a comprehensively curated entailment verification benchmark, we evaluate both human and LLM performance across various reasoning categories. Our benchmark includes datasets from three categories (NLI, contextual QA, and rationales) that include multi-sentence premises and different knowledge types, thereby evaluating the inference capabilities in complex reasoning instances. Notably, our findings reveal LLMs' superiority in multi-hop reasoning across extended contexts, while humans excel in tasks necessitating simple deductive reasoning. Leveraging these insights, we introduce a fine-tuned Flan-T5 model that outperforms GPT-3.5 and rivals with GPT-4, offering a robust open-source solution for entailment verification. As a practical application, we showcase the efficacy of our finetuned model in enhancing self-consistency in model-generated explanations, resulting in a 6% performance boost on average across three multiple-choice question-answering datasets.

------------

`[2402.03719] Empowering Language Models with Active Inquiry for Deeper Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03719>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:24:16 GMT
    Jing-Cheng Pang, Heng-Bo Fan, Pengyuan Wang, Jia-Hao Xiao, Nan Tang, Si-Hang Yang, Chengxing Jia, Sheng-Jun Huang, Yang Yu

The rise of large language models (LLMs) has revolutionized the way that we interact with artificial intelligence systems through natural language.
However, LLMs often misinterpret user queries because of their uncertain intention, leading to less helpful responses. In natural human interactions, clarification is sought through targeted questioning to uncover obscure information. Thus, in this paper, we introduce LaMAI (Language Model with Active Inquiry), designed to endow LLMs with this same level of interactive engagement. LaMAI leverages active learning techniques to raise the most informative questions, fostering a dynamic bidirectional dialogue. This approach not only narrows the contextual gap but also refines the output of the LLMs, aligning it more closely with user expectations. Our empirical studies, across a variety of complex datasets where LLMs have limited conversational context, demonstrate the effectiveness of LaMAI. The method improves answer accuracy from 31.9% to 50.9%, outperforming other leading question-answering frameworks. Moreover, in scenarios involving human participants, LaMAI consistently generates responses that are superior or comparable to baseline methods in more than 82% of the cases. The applicability of LaMAI is further evidenced by its successful integration with various LLMs, highlighting its potential for the future of interactive language models.

------------

`[2402.03744] INSIDE: LLMs' Internal States Retain the Power of Hallucination Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03744>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:23:12 GMT
    Chao Chen, Kai Liu, Ze Chen, Yi Gu, Yue Wu, Mingyuan Tao, Zhihang Fu, Jieping Ye

Knowledge hallucination have raised widespread concerns for the security and reliability of deployed LLMs. Previous efforts in detecting hallucinations have been employed at logit-level uncertainty estimation or language-level self-consistency evaluation, where the semantic information is inevitably lost during the token-decoding procedure. Thus, we propose to explore the dense semantic information retained within LLMs' \textbf{IN}ternal \textbf{S}tates for halluc\textbf{I}nation \textbf{DE}tection (\textbf{INSIDE}). In particular, a simple yet effective \textbf{EigenScore} metric is proposed to better evaluate responses' self-consistency, which exploits the eigenvalues of responses' covariance matrix to measure the semantic consistency/diversity in the dense embedding space. Furthermore, from the perspective of self-consistent hallucination detection, a test time feature clipping approach is explored to truncate extreme activations in the internal states, which reduces overconfident generations and potentially benefits the detection of overconfident hallucinations. Extensive experiments and ablation studies are performed on several popular LLMs and question-answering (QA) benchmarks, showing the effectiveness of our proposal.

------------

`[2402.03776] Large Language Models As MOOCs Graders <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03776>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:43:07 GMT
    Shahriar Golchin, Nikhil Garuda, Christopher Impey, Matthew Wenger

Massive open online courses (MOOCs) unlock the doors to free education for anyone around the globe with access to a computer and the internet. Despite this democratization of learning, the massive enrollment in these courses means it is almost impossible for one instructor to assess every student's writing assignment. As a result, peer grading, often guided by a straightforward rubric, is the method of choice. While convenient, peer grading often falls short in terms of reliability and validity. In this study, using 18 distinct settings, we explore the feasibility of leveraging large language models (LLMs) to replace peer grading in MOOCs. Specifically, we focus on two state-of-the-art LLMs: GPT-4 and GPT-3.5, across three distinct courses: Introductory Astronomy, Astrobiology, and the History and Philosophy of Astronomy. To instruct LLMs, we use three different prompts based on a variant of the zero-shot chain-of-thought (Zero-shot-CoT) prompting technique: Zero-shot-CoT combined with instructor-provided correct answers; Zero-shot-CoT in conjunction with both instructor-formulated answers and rubrics; and Zero-shot-CoT with instructor-offered correct answers and LLM-generated rubrics. Our results show that Zero-shot-CoT, when integrated with instructor-provided answers and rubrics, produces grades that are more aligned with those assigned by instructors compared to peer grading. However, the History and Philosophy of Astronomy course proves to be more challenging in terms of grading as opposed to other courses. Finally, our study reveals a promising direction for automating grading systems for MOOCs, especially in subjects with well-defined rubrics.

------------

`[2402.03832] Rethinking Skill Extraction in the Job Market Domain using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03832>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:23:26 GMT
    Khanh Cao Nguyen, Mike Zhang, Syrielle Montariol, Antoine Bosselut

Skill Extraction involves identifying skills and qualifications mentioned in documents such as job postings and resumes. The task is commonly tackled by training supervised models using a sequence labeling approach with BIO tags.
However, the reliance on manually annotated data limits the generalizability of such approaches. Moreover, the common BIO setting limits the ability of the models to capture complex skill patterns and handle ambiguous mentions. In this paper, we explore the use of in-context learning to overcome these challenges, on a benchmark of 6 uniformized skill extraction datasets. Our approach leverages the few-shot learning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) to identify and extract skills from sentences. We show that LLMs, despite not being on par with traditional supervised models in terms of performance, can better handle syntactically complex skill mentions in skill extraction tasks.

------------

`[2402.03848] ANLS* -- A Universal Document Processing Metric for Generative Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03848>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:50:08 GMT
    David Peer, Philemon Sch\"opf, Volckmar Nebendahl, Alexander Rietzler, Sebastian Stabinger

Traditionally, discriminative models have been the predominant choice for tasks like document classification and information extraction. These models make predictions that fall into a limited number of predefined classes, facilitating a binary true or false evaluation and enabling the direct calculation of metrics such as the F1 score. However, recent advancements in generative large language models (GLLMs) have prompted a shift in the field due to their enhanced zero-shot capabilities, which eliminate the need for a downstream dataset and computationally expensive fine-tuning. However, evaluating GLLMs presents a challenge as the binary true or false evaluation used for discriminative models is not applicable to the predictions made by GLLMs. This paper introduces a new metric for generative models called ANLS* for evaluating a wide variety of tasks, including information extraction and classification tasks. The ANLS* metric extends existing ANLS metrics as a drop-in-replacement and is still compatible with previously reported ANLS scores. An evaluation of 7 different datasets and 3 different GLLMs using the ANLS* metric is also provided, demonstrating the importance of the proposed metric. We also benchmark a novel approach to generate prompts for documents, called SFT, against other prompting techniques such as LATIN. In 15 out of 21 cases, SFT outperforms other techniques and improves the state-of-the-art, sometimes by as much as $15$ percentage points.
Sources are available at https://github.com/deepopinion/anls_star_metric

------------

`[2402.03877] Beyond Lines and Circles: Unveiling the Geometric Reasoning Gap in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03877>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 10:37:21 GMT
    Spyridon Mouselinos, Henryk Michalewski, Mateusz Malinowski

Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate ever-increasing abilities in mathematical and algorithmic tasks, yet their geometric reasoning skills are underexplored. We investigate LLMs' abilities in constructive geometric problem-solving one of the most fundamental steps in the development of human mathematical reasoning. Our work reveals notable challenges that the state-of-the-art LLMs face in this domain despite many successes in similar areas. LLMs exhibit biases in target variable selection and struggle with 2D spatial relationships, often misrepresenting and hallucinating objects and their placements. To this end, we introduce a framework that formulates an LLMs-based multi-agents system that enhances their existing reasoning potential by conducting an internal dialogue. This work underscores LLMs' current limitations in geometric reasoning and improves geometric reasoning capabilities through self-correction, collaboration, and diverse role specializations.

------------

`[2402.03898] DistiLLM: Towards Streamlined Distillation for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03898>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:10:35 GMT
    Jongwoo Ko, Sungnyun Kim, Tianyi Chen, Se-Young Yun

Knowledge distillation (KD) is widely used for compressing a teacher model to a smaller student model, reducing its inference cost and memory footprint while preserving model capabilities. However, current KD methods for auto-regressive sequence models (e.g., large language models) suffer from missing a standardized objective function. Moreover, the recent use of student-generated outputs to address training-inference mismatches has significantly escalated computational costs. To tackle these issues, we introduce DistiLLM, a more effective and efficient KD framework for auto-regressive language models.
DistiLLM comprises two components: (1) a novel skew Kullback-Leibler divergence loss, where we unveil and leverage its theoretical properties, and (2) an adaptive off-policy approach designed to enhance the efficiency in utilizing student-generated outputs. Extensive experiments, including instruction-following tasks, demonstrate the effectiveness of DistiLLM in building high-performing student models while achieving up to 4.3$\times$ speedup compared to recent KD methods.

------------

`[2402.03927] Leak, Cheat, Repeat: Data Contamination and Evaluation Malpractices in Closed-Source LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03927>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:54:23 GMT
    Simone Balloccu, Patr\'icia Schmidtov\'a, Mateusz Lango, and Ond\v{r}ej Du\v{s}ek

Natural Language Processing (NLP) research is increasingly focusing on the use of Large Language Models (LLMs), with some of the most popular ones being either fully or partially closed-source. The lack of access to model details, especially regarding training data, has repeatedly raised concerns about data contamination among researchers. Several attempts have been made to address this issue, but they are limited to anecdotal evidence and trial and error.
Additionally, they overlook the problem of \emph{indirect} data leaking, where models are iteratively improved by using data coming from users. In this work, we conduct the first systematic analysis of work using OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, the most prominently used LLMs today, in the context of data contamination. By analysing 255 papers and considering OpenAI's data usage policy, we extensively document the amount of data leaked to these models during the first year after the model's release. We report that these models have been globally exposed to $\sim$4.7M samples from 263 benchmarks. At the same time, we document a number of evaluation malpractices emerging in the reviewed papers, such as unfair or missing baseline comparisons and reproducibility issues. We release our results as a collaborative project on https://leak-llm.github.io/, where other researchers can contribute to our efforts.

------------

`[2402.04049] Systematic Biases in LLM Simulations of Debates <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04049>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 14:51:55 GMT
    Amir Taubenfeld, Yaniv Dover, Roi Reichart, Ariel Goldstein

Recent advancements in natural language processing, especially the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs), have opened exciting possibilities for constructing computational simulations designed to replicate human behavior accurately. However, LLMs are complex statistical learners without straightforward deductive rules, making them prone to unexpected behaviors. In this study, we highlight the limitations of LLMs in simulating human interactions, particularly focusing on LLMs' ability to simulate political debates. Our findings indicate a tendency for LLM agents to conform to the model's inherent social biases despite being directed to debate from certain political perspectives. This tendency results in behavioral patterns that seem to deviate from well-established social dynamics among humans. We reinforce these observations using an automatic self-fine-tuning method, which enables us to manipulate the biases within the LLM and demonstrate that agents subsequently align with the altered biases. These results underscore the need for further research to develop methods that help agents overcome these biases, a critical step toward creating more realistic simulations.

------------

`[2402.04075] Iterative Prompt Refinement for Radiation Oncology Symptom Extraction Using Teacher-Student Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04075>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:25:09 GMT
    Reza Khanmohammadi, Ahmed I Ghanem, Kyle Verdecchia, Ryan Hall, Mohamed Elshaikh, Benjamin Movsas, Hassan Bagher-Ebadian, Indrin Chetty, Mohammad M. Ghassemi, Kundan Thind

This study introduces a novel teacher-student architecture utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) to improve prostate cancer radiotherapy symptom extraction from clinical notes. Mixtral, the student model, initially extracts symptoms, followed by GPT-4, the teacher model, which refines prompts based on Mixtral's performance. This iterative process involved 294 single symptom clinical notes across 12 symptoms, with up to 16 rounds of refinement per epoch. Results showed significant improvements in extracting symptoms from both single and multi-symptom notes. For 59 single symptom notes, accuracy increased from 0.51 to 0.71, precision from 0.52 to 0.82, recall from 0.52 to 0.72, and F1 score from 0.49 to 0.73. In 375 multi-symptom notes, accuracy rose from 0.24 to 0.43, precision from 0.6 to 0.76, recall from 0.24 to 0.43, and F1 score from 0.20 to 0.44. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of advanced prompt engineering in LLMs for radiation oncology use.

------------

`[2402.04088] The Use of a Large Language Model for Cyberbullying Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04088>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:46:31 GMT
    Bayode Ogunleye, Babitha Dharmaraj

The dominance of social media has added to the channels of bullying for perpetrators. Unfortunately, cyberbullying (CB) is the most prevalent phenomenon in todays cyber world, and is a severe threat to the mental and physical health of citizens. This opens the need to develop a robust system to prevent bullying content from online forums, blogs, and social media platforms to manage the impact in our society. Several machine learning (ML) algorithms have been proposed for this purpose. However, their performances are not consistent due to high class imbalance and generalisation issues. In recent years, large language models (LLMs) like BERT and RoBERTa have achieved state-of-the-art (SOTA) results in several natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Unfortunately, the LLMs have not been applied extensively for CB detection. In our paper, we explored the use of these models for cyberbullying (CB) detection. We have prepared a new dataset (D2) from existing studies (Formspring and Twitter). Our experimental results for dataset D1 and D2 showed that RoBERTa outperformed other models.

------------

`[2402.04177] Scaling Laws for Downstream Task Performance of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04177>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 17:31:20 GMT
    Berivan Isik, Natalia Ponomareva, Hussein Hazimeh, Dimitris Paparas, Sergei Vassilvitskii, Sanmi Koyejo

Scaling laws provide important insights that can guide the design of large language models (LLMs). Existing work has primarily focused on studying scaling laws for pretraining (upstream) loss. However, in transfer learning settings, in which LLMs are pretrained on an unsupervised dataset and then finetuned on a downstream task, we often also care about the downstream performance. In this work, we study the scaling behavior in a transfer learning setting, where LLMs are finetuned for machine translation tasks. Specifically, we investigate how the choice of the pretraining data and its size affect downstream performance (translation quality) as judged by two metrics: downstream cross-entropy and BLEU score. Our experiments indicate that the size of the finetuning dataset and the distribution alignment between the pretraining and downstream data significantly influence the scaling behavior. With sufficient alignment, both downstream cross-entropy and BLEU score improve monotonically with more pretraining data. In such cases, we show that it is possible to predict the downstream BLEU score with good accuracy using a log-law. However, there are also cases where moderate misalignment causes the BLEU score to fluctuate or get worse with more pretraining, whereas downstream cross-entropy monotonically improves. By analyzing these observations, we provide new practical insights for choosing appropriate pretraining data.

------------

`[2402.04253] AnyTool: Self-Reflective, Hierarchical Agents for Large-Scale API Calls <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04253>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:59:57 GMT
    Yu Du, Fangyun Wei, Hongyang Zhang

We introduce AnyTool, a large language model agent designed to revolutionize the utilization of a vast array of tools in addressing user queries. We utilize over 16,000 APIs from Rapid API, operating under the assumption that a subset of these APIs could potentially resolve the queries. AnyTool primarily incorporates three elements: an API retriever with a hierarchical structure, a solver aimed at resolving user queries using a selected set of API candidates, and a self-reflection mechanism, which re-activates AnyTool if the initial solution proves impracticable. AnyTool is powered by the function calling feature of GPT-4, eliminating the need for training external modules. We also revisit the evaluation protocol introduced by previous works and identify a limitation in this protocol that leads to an artificially high pass rate. By revising the evaluation protocol to better reflect practical application scenarios, we introduce an additional benchmark, termed AnyToolBench.
Experiments across various datasets demonstrate the superiority of our AnyTool over strong baselines such as ToolLLM and a GPT-4 variant tailored for tool utilization. For instance, AnyTool outperforms ToolLLM by +35.4% in terms of average pass rate on ToolBench. Code will be available at https://github.com/dyabel/AnyTool.

------------

`[2402.03469] Preference-free Alignment Learning with Regularized Relevance Reward <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03469>`__

::

    Fri, 2 Feb 2024 11:58:08 GMT
    Sungdong Kim and Minjoon Seo

Learning from human preference has been considered key to aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) with human values. However, contrary to popular belief, our preliminary study reveals that reward models trained on human preference datasets tend to give higher scores to long off-topic responses than short on-topic ones. Motivated by this observation, we explore a preference-free approach utilizing `relevance' as a key objective for alignment. On our first attempt, we find that the relevance score obtained by a retriever alone is vulnerable to reward hacking, i.e., overoptimizing to undesired shortcuts, when we utilize the score as a reward for reinforcement learning. To mitigate it, we integrate effective inductive biases into the vanilla relevance to regularize each other, resulting in a mixture of reward functions: Regularized Relevance Reward ($R^3$). $R^3$ significantly improves performance on preference benchmarks by providing a robust reward signal. Notably, $R^3$ does not require any human preference datasets (i.e., preference-free), outperforming open-source reward models in improving human preference. Our analysis demonstrates that $R^3$ has advantages in elevating human preference while minimizing its side effects. Finally, we show the generalizability of $R^3$, consistently improving instruction-tuned models in various backbones and sizes without additional dataset cost. Our code is available at https://github.com/naver-ai/RRR.

------------

`[2402.03471] The Information of Large Language Model Geometry <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03471>`__

::

    Thu, 1 Feb 2024 12:50:43 GMT
    Zhiquan Tan, Chenghai Li, Weiran Huang

This paper investigates the information encoded in the embeddings of large language models (LLMs). We conduct simulations to analyze the representation entropy and discover a power law relationship with model sizes. Building upon this observation, we propose a theory based on (conditional) entropy to elucidate the scaling law phenomenon. Furthermore, we delve into the auto-regressive structure of LLMs and examine the relationship between the last token and previous context tokens using information theory and regression techniques. Specifically, we establish a theoretical connection between the information gain of new tokens and ridge regression. Additionally, we explore the effectiveness of Lasso regression in selecting meaningful tokens, which sometimes outperforms the closely related attention weights. Finally, we conduct controlled experiments, and find that information is distributed across tokens, rather than being concentrated in specific "meaningful" tokens alone.

------------

`[2402.03563] Distinguishing the Knowable from the Unknowable with Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03563>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 22:22:49 GMT
    Gustaf Ahdritz, Tian Qin, Nikhil Vyas, Boaz Barak, Benjamin L. Edelman

We study the feasibility of identifying epistemic uncertainty (reflecting a lack of knowledge), as opposed to aleatoric uncertainty (reflecting entropy in the underlying distribution), in the outputs of large language models (LLMs) over free-form text. In the absence of ground-truth probabilities, we explore a setting where, in order to (approximately) disentangle a given LLM's uncertainty, a significantly larger model stands in as a proxy for the ground truth. We show that small linear probes trained on the embeddings of frozen, pretrained models accurately predict when larger models will be more confident at the token level and that probes trained on one text domain generalize to others. Going further, we propose a fully unsupervised method that achieves non-trivial accuracy on the same task. Taken together, we interpret these results as evidence that LLMs naturally contain internal representations of different types of uncertainty that could potentially be leveraged to devise more informative indicators of model confidence in diverse practical settings.

------------

`[2402.03610] RAP: Retrieval-Augmented Planning with Contextual Memory for Multimodal LLM Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03610>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 00:53:27 GMT
    Tomoyuki Kagaya, Thong Jing Yuan, Yuxuan Lou, Jayashree Karlekar, Sugiri Pranata, Akira Kinose, Koki Oguri, Felix Wick, Yang You

Owing to recent advancements, Large Language Models (LLMs) can now be deployed as agents for increasingly complex decision-making applications in areas including robotics, gaming, and API integration. However, reflecting past experiences in current decision-making processes, an innate human behavior, continues to pose significant challenges. Addressing this, we propose Retrieval-Augmented Planning (RAP) framework, designed to dynamically leverage past experiences corresponding to the current situation and context, thereby enhancing agents' planning capabilities. RAP distinguishes itself by being versatile: it excels in both text-only and multimodal environments, making it suitable for a wide range of tasks. Empirical evaluations demonstrate RAP's effectiveness, where it achieves SOTA performance in textual scenarios and notably enhances multimodal LLM agents' performance for embodied tasks. These results highlight RAP's potential in advancing the functionality and applicability of LLM agents in complex, real-world applications.

------------

`[2402.03659] Learning to Generate Explainable Stock Predictions using Self-Reflective Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03659>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 03:18:58 GMT
    Kelvin J.L. Koa, Yunshan Ma, Ritchie Ng, Tat-Seng Chua

Explaining stock predictions is generally a difficult task for traditional non-generative deep learning models, where explanations are limited to visualizing the attention weights on important texts. Today, Large Language Models (LLMs) present a solution to this problem, given their known capabilities to generate human-readable explanations for their decision-making process. However, the task of stock prediction remains challenging for LLMs, as it requires the ability to weigh the varying impacts of chaotic social texts on stock prices. The problem gets progressively harder with the introduction of the explanation component, which requires LLMs to explain verbally why certain factors are more important than the others. On the other hand, to fine-tune LLMs for such a task, one would need expert-annotated samples of explanation for every stock movement in the training set, which is expensive and impractical to scale. To tackle these issues, we propose our Summarize-Explain-Predict (SEP) framework, which utilizes a self-reflective agent and Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) to let a LLM teach itself how to generate explainable stock predictions in a fully autonomous manner. The reflective agent learns how to explain past stock movements through self-reasoning, while the PPO trainer trains the model to generate the most likely explanations from input texts. The training samples for the PPO trainer are also the responses generated during the reflective process, which eliminates the need for human annotators. Using our SEP framework, we fine-tune a LLM that can outperform both traditional deep-learning and LLM methods in prediction accuracy and Matthews correlation coefficient for the stock classification task. To justify the generalization capability of our framework, we further test it on the portfolio construction task, and demonstrate its effectiveness through various portfolio metrics.

------------

`[2402.03720] Similarity-based Neighbor Selection for Graph LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03720>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:29:05 GMT
    Rui Li, Jiwei Li, Jiawei Han, Guoyin Wang

Text-attributed graphs (TAGs) present unique challenges for direct processing by Language Learning Models (LLMs), yet their extensive commonsense knowledge and robust reasoning capabilities offer great promise for node classification in TAGs. Prior research in this field has grappled with issues such as over-squashing, heterophily, and ineffective graph information integration, further compounded by inconsistencies in dataset partitioning and underutilization of advanced LLMs. To address these challenges, we introduce Similarity-based Neighbor Selection (SNS). Using SimCSE and advanced neighbor selection techniques, SNS effectively improves the quality of selected neighbors, thereby improving graph representation and alleviating issues like over-squashing and heterophily. Besides, as an inductive and training-free approach, SNS demonstrates superior generalization and scalability over traditional GNN methods. Our comprehensive experiments, adhering to standard dataset partitioning practices, demonstrate that SNS, through simple prompt interactions with LLMs, consistently outperforms vanilla GNNs and achieves state-of-the-art results on datasets like PubMed in node classification, showcasing LLMs' potential in graph structure understanding. Our research further underscores the significance of graph structure integration in LLM applications and identifies key factors for their success in node classification. Code is available at https://github.com/ruili33/SNS.

------------

`[2402.03804] ReLU$^2$ Wins: Discovering Efficient Activation Functions for Sparse LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03804>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:45:51 GMT
    Zhengyan Zhang, Yixin Song, Guanghui Yu, Xu Han, Yankai Lin, Chaojun Xiao, Chenyang Song, Zhiyuan Liu, Zeyu Mi, Maosong Sun

Sparse computation offers a compelling solution for the inference of Large Language Models (LLMs) in low-resource scenarios by dynamically skipping the computation of inactive neurons. While traditional approaches focus on ReLU-based LLMs, leveraging zeros in activation values, we broaden the scope of sparse LLMs beyond zero activation values. We introduce a general method that defines neuron activation through neuron output magnitudes and a tailored magnitude threshold, demonstrating that non-ReLU LLMs also exhibit sparse activation. To find the most efficient activation function for sparse computation, we propose a systematic framework to examine the sparsity of LLMs from three aspects: the trade-off between sparsity and performance, the predictivity of sparsity, and the hardware affinity. We conduct thorough experiments on LLMs utilizing different activation functions, including ReLU, SwiGLU, ReGLU, and ReLU$^2$. The results indicate that models employing ReLU$^2$ excel across all three evaluation aspects, highlighting its potential as an efficient activation function for sparse LLMs. We will release the code to facilitate future research.

------------

`[2402.03921] Large Language Models to Enhance Bayesian Optimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03921>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:44:06 GMT
    Tennison Liu and Nicol\'as Astorga and Nabeel Seedat and Mihaela van der Schaar

Bayesian optimization (BO) is a powerful approach for optimizing complex and expensive-to-evaluate black-box functions. Its importance is underscored in many applications, notably including hyperparameter tuning, but its efficacy depends on efficiently balancing exploration and exploitation. While there has been substantial progress in BO methods, striking this balance still remains a delicate process. In this light, we present \texttt{LLAMBO}, a novel approach that integrates the capabilities of large language models (LLM) within BO. At a high level, we frame the BO problem in natural language terms, enabling LLMs to iteratively propose promising solutions conditioned on historical evaluations.
More specifically, we explore how combining contextual understanding, few-shot learning proficiency, and domain knowledge of LLMs can enhance various components of model-based BO. Our findings illustrate that \texttt{LLAMBO} is effective at zero-shot warmstarting, and improves surrogate modeling and candidate sampling, especially in the early stages of search when observations are sparse. Our approach is performed in context and does not require LLM finetuning. Additionally, it is modular by design, allowing individual components to be integrated into existing BO frameworks, or function cohesively as an end-to-end method. We empirically validate \texttt{LLAMBO}'s efficacy on the problem of hyperparameter tuning, highlighting strong empirical performance across a range of diverse benchmarks, proprietary, and synthetic tasks.

------------

`[2402.03941] Discovery of the Hidden World with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03941>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 12:18:54 GMT
    Chenxi Liu, Yongqiang Chen, Tongliang Liu, Mingming Gong, James Cheng, Bo Han, Kun Zhang

Science originates with discovering new causal knowledge from a combination of known facts and observations. Traditional causal discovery approaches mainly rely on high-quality measured variables, usually given by human experts, to find causal relations. However, the causal variables are usually unavailable in a wide range of real-world applications. The rise of large language models (LLMs) that are trained to learn rich knowledge from the massive observations of the world, provides a new opportunity to assist with discovering high-level hidden variables from the raw observational data. Therefore, we introduce COAT: Causal representatiOn AssistanT. COAT incorporates LLMs as a factor proposer that extracts the potential causal factors from unstructured data. Moreover, LLMs can also be instructed to provide additional information used to collect data values (e.g., annotation criteria) and to further parse the raw unstructured data into structured data. The annotated data will be fed to a causal learning module (e.g., the FCI algorithm) that provides both rigorous explanations of the data, as well as useful feedback to further improve the extraction of causal factors by LLMs. We verify the effectiveness of COAT in uncovering the underlying causal system with two case studies of review rating analysis and neuropathic diagnosis.

------------

`[2402.03969] In-context learning agents are asymmetric belief updaters <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03969>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 12:58:38 GMT
    Johannes A. Schubert, Akshay K. Jagadish, Marcel Binz, Eric Schulz

We study the in-context learning dynamics of large language models (LLMs) using three instrumental learning tasks adapted from cognitive psychology. We find that LLMs update their beliefs in an asymmetric manner and learn more from better-than-expected outcomes than from worse-than-expected ones. Furthermore, we show that this effect reverses when learning about counterfactual feedback and disappears when no agency is implied. We corroborate these findings by investigating idealized in-context learning agents derived through meta-reinforcement learning, where we observe similar patterns. Taken together, our results contribute to our understanding of how in-context learning works by highlighting that the framing of a problem significantly influences how learning occurs, a phenomenon also observed in human cognition.

------------

`[2402.04004] Understanding the Effect of Noise in LLM Training Data with Algorithmic Chains of Thought <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04004>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 13:59:56 GMT
    Alex Havrilla, Maia Iyer

During both pretraining and fine-tuning, Large Language Models (\textbf{LLMs}) are trained on trillions of tokens of text of widely varying quality. Both phases of training typically involve heuristically filtering out ``low-quality'' or \textit{noisy} training samples, yet little is known quantitatively about how the type or intensity of noise affects downstream performance. In this work, we study how noise in chain of thought (\textbf{CoT}) impacts task performance in the highly-controlled setting of algorithmically solvable tasks. First, we develop the Traced Integer (\textbf{TInt}) framework to generate highly customizable noised execution traces for any arithmetic function on lists of integers. We then define two types of noise: \textit{static} noise, a local form of noise which is applied after the CoT trace is computed, and \textit{dynamic} noise, a global form of noise which propagates errors in the trace as it is computed. We then evaluate the test performance of pretrained models both prompted and fine-tuned on noised datasets with varying levels of dataset contamination and intensity. We find fine-tuned models are extremely robust to high levels of static noise but struggle significantly more with lower levels of dynamic noise. In contrast, few-shot prompted models appear more sensitive to even static noise. We conclude with a discussion of how our findings impact noise filtering best-practices, in particular emphasizing the importance of removing samples containing destructive dynamic noise with global errors.

------------

`[2402.04084] Provably learning a multi-head attention layer <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04084>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:39:09 GMT
    Sitan Chen, Yuanzhi Li

The multi-head attention layer is one of the key components of the transformer architecture that sets it apart from traditional feed-forward models. Given a sequence length $k$, attention matrices $\mathbf{\Theta}_1,\ldots,\mathbf{\Theta}_m\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$, and projection matrices $\mathbf{W}_1,\ldots,\mathbf{W}_m\in\mathbb{R}^{d\times d}$, the corresponding multi-head attention layer $F: \mathbb{R}^{k\times d}\to \mathbb{R}^{k\times d}$ transforms length-$k$ sequences of $d$-dimensional tokens $\mathbf{X}\in\mathbb{R}^{k\times d}$ via $F(\mathbf{X}) \triangleq \sum^m_{i=1} \mathrm{softmax}(\mathbf{X}\mathbf{\Theta}_i\mathbf{X}^\top)\mathbf{X}\mathbf{W}_i$.
In this work, we initiate the study of provably learning a multi-head attention layer from random examples and give the first nontrivial upper and lower bounds for this problem: - Provided $\{\mathbf{W}_i, \mathbf{\Theta}_i\}$ satisfy certain non-degeneracy conditions, we give a $(dk)^{O(m^3)}$-time algorithm that learns $F$ to small error given random labeled examples drawn uniformly from $\{\pm 1\}^{k\times d}$.
- We prove computational lower bounds showing that in the worst case, exponential dependence on $m$ is unavoidable.
We focus on Boolean $\mathbf{X}$ to mimic the discrete nature of tokens in large language models, though our techniques naturally extend to standard continuous settings, e.g. Gaussian. Our algorithm, which is centered around using examples to sculpt a convex body containing the unknown parameters, is a significant departure from existing provable algorithms for learning feedforward networks, which predominantly exploit algebraic and rotation invariance properties of the Gaussian distribution. In contrast, our analysis is more flexible as it primarily relies on various upper and lower tail bounds for the input distribution and "slices" thereof.

------------

`[2402.04119] Scientific Language Modeling: A Quantitative Review of Large Language Models in Molecular Science <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04119>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 16:12:36 GMT
    Pengfei Liu, Jun Tao, Zhixiang Ren

Efficient molecular modeling and design are crucial for the discovery and exploration of novel molecules, and the incorporation of deep learning methods has revolutionized this field. In particular, large language models (LLMs) offer a fresh approach to tackle scientific problems from a natural language processing (NLP) perspective, introducing a research paradigm called scientific language modeling (SLM). However, two key issues remain: how to quantify the match between model and data modalities and how to identify the knowledge-learning preferences of models. To address these challenges, we propose a multi-modal benchmark, named ChEBI-20-MM, and perform 1263 experiments to assess the model's compatibility with data modalities and knowledge acquisition. Through the modal transition probability matrix, we provide insights into the most suitable modalities for tasks. Furthermore, we introduce a statistically interpretable approach to discover context-specific knowledge mapping by localized feature filtering. Our pioneering analysis offers an exploration of the learning mechanism and paves the way for advancing SLM in molecular science.

------------

`[2402.04249] HarmBench: A Standardized Evaluation Framework for Automated Red Teaming and Robust Refusal <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04249>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:59:08 GMT
    Mantas Mazeika, Long Phan, Xuwang Yin, Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Norman Mu, Elham Sakhaee, Nathaniel Li, Steven Basart, Bo Li, David Forsyth, Dan Hendrycks

Automated red teaming holds substantial promise for uncovering and mitigating the risks associated with the malicious use of large language models (LLMs), yet the field lacks a standardized evaluation framework to rigorously assess new methods. To address this issue, we introduce HarmBench, a standardized evaluation framework for automated red teaming. We identify several desirable properties previously unaccounted for in red teaming evaluations and systematically design HarmBench to meet these criteria. Using HarmBench, we conduct a large-scale comparison of 18 red teaming methods and 33 target LLMs and defenses, yielding novel insights. We also introduce a highly efficient adversarial training method that greatly enhances LLM robustness across a wide range of attacks, demonstrating how HarmBench enables codevelopment of attacks and defenses. We open source HarmBench at https://github.com/centerforaisafety/HarmBench.

------------

`[2402.03327] Uni3D-LLM: Unifying Point Cloud Perception, Generation and Editing with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03327>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Jan 2024 06:20:23 GMT
    Dingning Liu, Xiaoshui Huang, Yuenan Hou, Zhihui Wang, Zhenfei Yin, Yongshun Gong, Peng Gao, Wanli Ouyang

In this paper, we introduce Uni3D-LLM, a unified framework that leverages a Large Language Model (LLM) to integrate tasks of 3D perception, generation, and editing within point cloud scenes. This framework empowers users to effortlessly generate and modify objects at specified locations within a scene, guided by the versatility of natural language descriptions. Uni3D-LLM harnesses the expressive power of natural language to allow for precise command over the generation and editing of 3D objects, thereby significantly enhancing operational flexibility and controllability. By mapping point cloud into the unified representation space, Uni3D-LLM achieves cross-application functionality, enabling the seamless execution of a wide array of tasks, ranging from the accurate instantiation of 3D objects to the diverse requirements of interactive design. Through a comprehensive suite of rigorous experiments, the efficacy of Uni3D-LLM in the comprehension, generation, and editing of point cloud has been validated. Additionally, we have assessed the impact of integrating a point cloud perception module on the generation and editing processes, confirming the substantial potential of our approach for practical applications.

------------

`[2402.03349] When Geoscience Meets Generative AI and Large Language Models: Foundations, Trends, and Future Challenges <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03349>`__

::

    Thu, 25 Jan 2024 12:03:50 GMT
    Abdenour Hadid, Tanujit Chakraborty, Daniel Busby

Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) represents an emerging field that promises the creation of synthetic data and outputs in different modalities.
GAI has recently shown impressive results across a large spectrum of applications ranging from biology, medicine, education, legislation, computer science, and finance. As one strives for enhanced safety, efficiency, and sustainability, generative AI indeed emerges as a key differentiator and promises a paradigm shift in the field. This paper explores the potential applications of generative AI and large language models in geoscience. The recent developments in the field of machine learning and deep learning have enabled the generative model's utility for tackling diverse prediction problems, simulation, and multi-criteria decision-making challenges related to geoscience and Earth system dynamics. This survey discusses several GAI models that have been used in geoscience comprising generative adversarial networks (GANs), physics-informed neural networks (PINNs), and generative pre-trained transformer (GPT)-based structures. These tools have helped the geoscience community in several applications, including (but not limited to) data generation/augmentation, super-resolution, panchromatic sharpening, haze removal, restoration, and land surface changing. Some challenges still remain such as ensuring physical interpretation, nefarious use cases, and trustworthiness. Beyond that, GAI models show promises to the geoscience community, especially with the support to climate change, urban science, atmospheric science, marine science, and planetary science through their extraordinary ability to data-driven modeling and uncertainty quantification.

------------

`[2402.03366] Uncertainty-Aware Explainable Recommendation with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03366>`__

::

    Wed, 31 Jan 2024 14:06:26 GMT
    Yicui Peng, Hao Chen, Chingsheng Lin, Guo Huang, Jinrong Hu, Hui Guo, Bin Kong, Shu Hu, Xi Wu, and Xin Wang

Providing explanations within the recommendation system would boost user satisfaction and foster trust, especially by elaborating on the reasons for selecting recommended items tailored to the user. The predominant approach in this domain revolves around generating text-based explanations, with a notable emphasis on applying large language models (LLMs). However, refining LLMs for explainable recommendations proves impractical due to time constraints and computing resource limitations. As an alternative, the current approach involves training the prompt rather than the LLM. In this study, we developed a model that utilizes the ID vectors of user and item inputs as prompts for GPT-2. We employed a joint training mechanism within a multi-task learning framework to optimize both the recommendation task and explanation task. This strategy enables a more effective exploration of users' interests, improving recommendation effectiveness and user satisfaction. Through the experiments, our method achieving 1.59 DIV, 0.57 USR and 0.41 FCR on the Yelp, TripAdvisor and Amazon dataset respectively, demonstrates superior performance over four SOTA methods in terms of explainability evaluation metric. In addition, we identified that the proposed model is able to ensure stable textual quality on the three public datasets.

------------

`[2402.03396] UniTSyn: A Large-Scale Dataset Capable of Enhancing the Prowess of Large Language Models for Program Testing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03396>`__

::

    Sun, 4 Feb 2024 22:48:05 GMT
    Yifeng He, Jiabo Huang, Yuyang Rong, Yiwen Guo, Ethan Wang, Hao Chen

The remarkable capability of large language models (LLMs) in generating high-quality code has drawn increasing attention in the software testing community. However, existing code LLMs often demonstrate unsatisfactory capabilities in generating accurate and complete tests since they were trained on code snippets collected without differentiating between code for testing purposes and other code. In this paper, we present a large-scale dataset UniTSyn, which is capable of enhancing the prowess of LLMs for Unit Test Synthesis. Associating tests with the tested functions is crucial for LLMs to infer the expected behavior and the logic paths to be verified. By leveraging Language Server Protocol, UniTSyn achieves the challenging goal of collecting focal-test pairs without per-project execution setups or per-language heuristics that tend to be fragile and difficult to scale. It contains 2.7 million focal-test pairs across five mainstream programming languages, making it possible to be utilized for enhancing the test generation ability of LLMs.
The details of UniTSyn can be found in Table 1. Our experiments demonstrate that, by building an autoregressive model based on UniTSyn, we can achieve significant benefits in learning and understanding unit test representations, resulting in improved generation accuracy and code coverage across all evaluated programming languages. Code and data will be publicly available.

------------

`[2402.03578] LLM Multi-Agent Systems: Challenges and Open Problems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03578>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 23:06:42 GMT
    Shanshan Han, Qifan Zhang, Yuhang Yao, Weizhao Jin, Zhaozhuo Xu, Chaoyang He

This paper explores existing works of multi-agent systems and identifies challenges that remain inadequately addressed. By leveraging the diverse capabilities and roles of individual agents within a multi-agent system, these systems can tackle complex tasks through collaboration. We discuss optimizing task allocation, fostering robust reasoning through iterative debates, managing complex and layered context information, and enhancing memory management to support the intricate interactions within multi-agent systems. We also explore the potential application of multi-agent systems in blockchain systems to shed light on their future development and application in real-world distributed systems.

------------

`[2402.03630] Enhancing LLM-Based Coding Tools through Native Integration of IDE-Derived Static Context <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03630>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:59:41 GMT
    Yichen Li and Yun Peng and Yintong Huo and Michael R. Lyu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in code completion, as evidenced by their essential roles in developing code assistant services such as Copilot. Being trained on in-file contexts, current LLMs are quite effective in completing code for single source files. However, it is challenging for them to conduct repository-level code completion for large software projects that require cross-file information. Existing research on LLM-based repository-level code completion identifies and integrates cross-file contexts, but it suffers from low accuracy and limited context length of LLMs.
In this paper, we argue that Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) can provide direct, accurate and real-time cross-file information for repository-level code completion. We propose IDECoder, a practical framework that leverages IDE native static contexts for cross-context construction and diagnosis results for self-refinement. IDECoder utilizes the rich cross-context information available in IDEs to enhance the capabilities of LLMs of repository-level code completion. We conducted preliminary experiments to validate the performance of IDECoder and observed that this synergy represents a promising trend for future exploration.

------------

`[2402.03781] MolTC: Towards Molecular Relational Modeling In Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03781>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:51:56 GMT
    Junfeng Fang, Shuai Zhang, Chang Wu, Zhiyuan Liu, Sihang Li, Kun Wang, Wenjie Du, Xiang Wang, Xiangnan He

Molecular Relational Learning (MRL), aiming to understand interactions between molecular pairs, plays a pivotal role in advancing biochemical research. Recently, the adoption of large language models (LLMs), known for their vast knowledge repositories and advanced logical inference capabilities, has emerged as a promising way for efficient and effective MRL. Despite their potential, these methods predominantly rely on the textual data, thus not fully harnessing the wealth of structural information inherent in molecular graphs.
Moreover, the absence of a unified framework exacerbates the information underutilization, as it hinders the sharing of interaction rationale learned across diverse datasets. To address these challenges, this work proposes a novel LLM-based multi-modal framework for Molecular inTeraction prediction following Chain-of-Thought (CoT) theory, termed MolTC, which can efficiently integrate rich graphical information of molecular pairs. For achieving a unified MRL, MolTC innovatively develops a dynamic parameter-sharing strategy for cross-dataset information exchange, and introduces a Multi-hierarchical CoT principle to refine training paradigm. Our experiments, conducted across twelve varied datasets involving over 4,000,000 molecular pairs, demonstrate the superiority of our method over current GNN and LLM-based baselines. On the top of that, a comprehensive Molecular Interactive Instructions dataset is constructed for the development of biochemical LLM, including our MolTC. Code is available at https://github.com/MangoKiller/MolTC.

------------

`[2402.03907] Embedding Large Language Models into Extended Reality: Opportunities and Challenges for Inclusion, Engagement, and Privacy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03907>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:19:40 GMT
    Efe Bozkir and S\"uleyman \"Ozdel and Ka Hei Carrie Lau and Mengdi Wang and Hong Gao and Enkelejda Kasneci

Recent developments in computer graphics, hardware, artificial intelligence (AI), and human-computer interaction likely lead to extended reality (XR) devices and setups being more pervasive. While these devices and setups provide users with interactive, engaging, and immersive experiences with different sensing modalities, such as eye and hand trackers, many non-player characters are utilized in a pre-scripted way or by conventional AI techniques. In this paper, we argue for using large language models (LLMs) in XR by embedding them in virtual avatars or as narratives to facilitate more inclusive experiences through prompt engineering according to user profiles and fine-tuning the LLMs for particular purposes. We argue that such inclusion will facilitate diversity for XR use. In addition, we believe that with the versatile conversational capabilities of LLMs, users will engage more with XR environments, which might help XR be more used in everyday life. Lastly, we speculate that combining the information provided to LLM-powered environments by the users and the biometric data obtained through the sensors might lead to novel privacy invasions. While studying such possible privacy invasions, user privacy concerns and preferences should also be investigated. In summary, despite some challenges, embedding LLMs into XR is a promising and novel research area with several opportunities.

------------

`[2402.04141] Multi-line AI-assisted Code Authoring <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04141>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 16:48:50 GMT
    Omer Dunay and Daniel Cheng and Adam Tait and Parth Thakkar and Peter C Rigby and Andy Chiu and Imad Ahmad and Arun Ganesan and Chandra Maddila and Vijayaraghavan Murali and Ali Tayyebi and Nachiappan Nagappan

CodeCompose is an AI-assisted code authoring tool powered by large language models (LLMs) that provides inline suggestions to 10's of thousands of developers at Meta. In this paper, we present how we scaled the product from displaying single-line suggestions to multi-line suggestions. This evolution required us to overcome several unique challenges in improving the usability of these suggestions for developers.
First, we discuss how multi-line suggestions can have a 'jarring' effect, as the LLM's suggestions constantly move around the developer's existing code, which would otherwise result in decreased productivity and satisfaction.
Second, multi-line suggestions take significantly longer to generate; hence we present several innovative investments we made to reduce the perceived latency for users. These model-hosting optimizations sped up multi-line suggestion latency by 2.5x.
Finally, we conduct experiments on 10's of thousands of engineers to understand how multi-line suggestions impact the user experience and contrast this with single-line suggestions. Our experiments reveal that (i) multi-line suggestions account for 42% of total characters accepted (despite only accounting for 16% for displayed suggestions) (ii) multi-line suggestions almost doubled the percentage of keystrokes saved for users from 9% to 17%.
Multi-line CodeCompose has been rolled out to all engineers at Meta, and less than 1% of engineers have opted out of multi-line suggestions.

------------

`[2402.04247] Prioritizing Safeguarding Over Autonomy: Risks of LLM Agents for Science <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04247>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:54:07 GMT
    Xiangru Tang, Qiao Jin, Kunlun Zhu, Tongxin Yuan, Yichi Zhang, Wangchunshu Zhou, Meng Qu, Yilun Zhao, Jian Tang, Zhuosheng Zhang, Arman Cohan, Zhiyong Lu, Mark Gerstein

Intelligent agents powered by large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated substantial promise in autonomously conducting experiments and facilitating scientific discoveries across various disciplines. While their capabilities are promising, they also introduce novel vulnerabilities that demand careful consideration for safety. However, there exists a notable gap in the literature, as there has been no comprehensive exploration of these vulnerabilities. This position paper fills this gap by conducting a thorough examination of vulnerabilities in LLM-based agents within scientific domains, shedding light on potential risks associated with their misuse and emphasizing the need for safety measures. We begin by providing a comprehensive overview of the potential risks inherent to scientific LLM agents, taking into account user intent, the specific scientific domain, and their potential impact on the external environment. Then, we delve into the origins of these vulnerabilities and provide a scoping review of the limited existing works. Based on our analysis, we propose a triadic framework involving human regulation, agent alignment, and an understanding of environmental feedback (agent regulation) to mitigate these identified risks. Furthermore, we highlight the limitations and challenges associated with safeguarding scientific agents and advocate for the development of improved models, robust benchmarks, and comprehensive regulations to address these issues effectively.

------------

`[2402.03407] Enhancing the Stability of LLM-based Speech Generation Systems through Self-Supervised Representations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03407>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 15:08:19 GMT
    \'Alvaro Mart\'in-Cortinas, Daniel S\'aez-Trigueros, Iv\'an Vall\'es-P\'erez, Biel Tura-Vecino, Piotr Bili\'nski, Mateusz Lajszczak, Grzegorz Beringer, Roberto Barra-Chicote, Jaime Lorenzo-Trueba

Large Language Models (LLMs) are one of the most promising technologies for the next era of speech generation systems, due to their scalability and in-context learning capabilities. Nevertheless, they suffer from multiple stability issues at inference time, such as hallucinations, content skipping or speech repetitions. In this work, we introduce a new self-supervised Voice Conversion (VC) architecture which can be used to learn to encode transitory features, such as content, separately from stationary ones, such as speaker ID or recording conditions, creating speaker-disentangled representations. Using speaker-disentangled codes to train LLMs for text-to-speech (TTS) allows the LLM to generate the content and the style of the speech only from the text, similarly to humans, while the speaker identity is provided by the decoder of the VC model. Results show that LLMs trained over speaker-disentangled self-supervised representations provide an improvement of 4.7pp in speaker similarity over SOTA entangled representations, and a word error rate (WER) 5.4pp lower. Furthermore, they achieve higher naturalness than human recordings of the LibriTTS test-other dataset. Finally, we show that using explicit reference embedding negatively impacts intelligibility (stability), with WER increasing by 14pp compared to the model that only uses text to infer the style.

------------

`[2402.03710] Listen, Chat, and Edit: Text-Guided Soundscape Modification for Enhanced Auditory Experience <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03710>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:05:38 GMT
    Xilin Jiang, Cong Han, Yinghao Aaron Li, and Nima Mesgarani

In daily life, we encounter a variety of sounds, both desirable and undesirable, with limited control over their presence and volume. Our work introduces "Listen, Chat, and Edit" (LCE), a novel multimodal sound mixture editor that modifies each sound source in a mixture based on user-provided text instructions. LCE distinguishes itself with a user-friendly chat interface and its unique ability to edit multiple sound sources simultaneously within a mixture, without needing to separate them. Users input open-vocabulary text prompts, which are interpreted by a large language model to create a semantic filter for editing the sound mixture. The system then decomposes the mixture into its components, applies the semantic filter, and reassembles it into the desired output. We developed a 160-hour dataset with over 100k mixtures, including speech and various audio sources, along with text prompts for diverse editing tasks like extraction, removal, and volume control. Our experiments demonstrate significant improvements in signal quality across all editing tasks and robust performance in zero-shot scenarios with varying numbers and types of sound sources.

------------

`[2402.03757] The Instinctive Bias: Spurious Images lead to Hallucination in MLLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03757>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:48:46 GMT
    Tianyang Han, Qing Lian, Rui Pan, Renjie Pi, Jipeng Zhang, Shizhe Diao, Yong Lin, Tong Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) have recently experienced remarkable progress, where the advent of multi-modal large language models (MLLMs) has endowed LLMs with visual capabilities, leading to impressive performances in various multi-modal tasks. However, those powerful MLLMs such as GPT-4V still fail spectacularly when presented with certain image and text inputs. In this paper, we identify a typical class of inputs that baffles MLLMs, which consist of images that are highly relevant but inconsistent with answers, causing MLLMs to suffer from hallucination. To quantify the effect, we propose CorrelationQA, the first benchmark that assesses the hallucination level given spurious images. This benchmark contains 7,308 text-image pairs across 13 categories.
Based on the proposed CorrelationQA, we conduct a thorough analysis on 9 mainstream MLLMs, illustrating that they universally suffer from this instinctive bias to varying degrees. We hope that our curated benchmark and evaluation results aid in better assessments of the MLLMs' robustness in the presence of misleading images. The resource is available in https://github.com/MasaiahHan/CorrelationQA.

------------

`[2402.03916] Can Large Language Models Detect Rumors on Social Media? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03916>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:33:57 GMT
    Qiang Liu, Xiang Tao, Junfei Wu, Shu Wu, Liang Wang

In this work, we investigate to use Large Language Models (LLMs) for rumor detection on social media. However, it is challenging for LLMs to reason over the entire propagation information on social media, which contains news contents and numerous comments, due to LLMs may not concentrate on key clues in the complex propagation information, and have trouble in reasoning when facing massive and redundant information. Accordingly, we propose an LLM-empowered Rumor Detection (LeRuD) approach, in which we design prompts to teach LLMs to reason over important clues in news and comments, and divide the entire propagation information into a Chain-of-Propagation for reducing LLMs' burden.
We conduct extensive experiments on the Twitter and Weibo datasets, and LeRuD outperforms several state-of-the-art rumor detection models by 2.4% to 7.6%.
Meanwhile, by applying LLMs, LeRuD requires no data for training, and thus shows more promising rumor detection ability in few-shot or zero-shot scenarios.

------------

`[2402.04105] Measuring Implicit Bias in Explicitly Unbiased Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04105>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:59:23 GMT
    Xuechunzi Bai, Angelina Wang, Ilia Sucholutsky, Thomas L. Griffiths

Large language models (LLMs) can pass explicit bias tests but still harbor implicit biases, similar to humans who endorse egalitarian beliefs yet exhibit subtle biases. Measuring such implicit biases can be a challenge: as LLMs become increasingly proprietary, it may not be possible to access their embeddings and apply existing bias measures; furthermore, implicit biases are primarily a concern if they affect the actual decisions that these systems make. We address both of these challenges by introducing two measures of bias inspired by psychology: LLM Implicit Association Test (IAT) Bias, which is a prompt-based method for revealing implicit bias; and LLM Decision Bias for detecting subtle discrimination in decision-making tasks. Using these measures, we found pervasive human-like stereotype biases in 6 LLMs across 4 social domains (race, gender, religion, health) and 21 categories (weapons, guilt, science, career among others). Our prompt-based measure of implicit bias correlates with embedding-based methods but better predicts downstream behaviors measured by LLM Decision Bias. This measure is based on asking the LLM to decide between individuals, motivated by psychological results indicating that relative not absolute evaluations are more related to implicit biases. Using prompt-based measures informed by psychology allows us to effectively expose nuanced biases and subtle discrimination in proprietary LLMs that do not show explicit bias on standard benchmarks.

------------

`[2402.03901] Batch Universal Prediction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03901>`__

::

    Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:13:26 GMT
    Marco Bondaschi, Michael Gastpar

Large language models (LLMs) have recently gained much popularity due to their surprising ability at generating human-like English sentences. LLMs are essentially predictors, estimating the probability of a sequence of words given the past. Therefore, it is natural to evaluate their performance from a universal prediction perspective. In order to do that fairly, we introduce the notion of batch regret as a modification of the classical average regret, and we study its asymptotical value for add-constant predictors, in the case of memoryless sources and first-order Markov sources.

------------

`[2309.07683] Assessing the nature of large language models: A caution against anthropocentrism <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07683>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 19:01:55 GMT
    Submission history From: Ann Speed [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 14 Sep 2023 12:58:30 UTC (748 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 19:01:55 UTC (816 KB)
    Ann Speed

Generative AI models garnered a large amount of public attention and speculation with the release of OpenAIs chatbot, ChatGPT. At least two opinion camps exist: one excited about possibilities these models offer for fundamental changes to human tasks, and another highly concerned about power these models seem to have. To address these concerns, we assessed several LLMs, primarily GPT 3.5, using standard, normed, and validated cognitive and personality measures. For this seedling project, we developed a battery of tests that allowed us to estimate the boundaries of some of these models capabilities, how stable those capabilities are over a short period of time, and how they compare to humans. Our results indicate that LLMs are unlikely to have developed sentience, although its ability to respond to personality inventories is interesting. GPT3.5 did display large variability in both cognitive and personality measures over repeated observations, which is not expected if it had a human-like personality. Variability notwithstanding, LLMs display what in a human would be considered poor mental health, including low self-esteem, marked dissociation from reality, and in some cases narcissism and psychopathy, despite upbeat and helpful responses.

------------

`[2310.14403] O3D: Offline Data-driven Discovery and Distillation for Sequential Decision-Making with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14403>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 20:17:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuchen Xiao [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 22 Oct 2023 20:28:33 UTC (1,204 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 25 Dec 2023 04:29:04 UTC (1,207 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 16:42:19 UTC (1,206 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 20:17:14 UTC (5,468 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 18:29:45 UTC (5,470 KB)
    Yuchen Xiao, Yanchao Sun, Mengda Xu, Udari Madhushani, Jared Vann, Deepeka Garg, Sumitra Ganesh

Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have exhibited promising performance in solving sequential decision-making problems. By imitating few-shot examples provided in the prompts (i.e., in-context learning), an LLM agent can interact with an external environment and complete given tasks without additional training. However, such few-shot examples are often insufficient to generate high-quality solutions for complex and long-horizon tasks, while the limited context length cannot consume larger-scale demonstrations with long interaction horizons. To this end, we propose an offline learning framework that utilizes offline data at scale (e.g, logs of human interactions) to improve LLM-powered policies without finetuning. The proposed method O3D (Offline Data-driven Discovery and Distillation) automatically discovers reusable skills and distills generalizable knowledge across multiple tasks based on offline interaction data, advancing the capability of solving downstream tasks. Empirical results under two interactive decision-making benchmarks (ALFWorld and WebShop) verify that O3D can notably enhance the decision-making capabilities of LLMs through the offline discovery and distillation process, and consistently outperform baselines across various LLMs.

------------

`[2401.00006] Building Open-Ended Embodied Agent via Language-Policy Bidirectional Adaptation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00006>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 16:30:55 GMT
    Submission history From: Shaopeng Zhai [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 12 Dec 2023 11:06:07 UTC (8,033 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 03:39:25 UTC (20,754 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 16:30:55 UTC (22,814 KB)
    Shaopeng Zhai, Jie Wang, Tianyi Zhang, Fuxian Huang, Qi Zhang, Ming Zhou, Jing Hou, Yu Qiao and Yu Liu

Building embodied agents on integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) and Reinforcement Learning (RL) have revolutionized human-AI interaction: researchers can now leverage language instructions to plan decision-making for open-ended tasks. However, existing research faces challenges in meeting the requirement of open-endedness. They typically either train LLM/RL models to adapt to a fixed counterpart, limiting exploration of novel skills and hindering the efficacy of human-AI interaction. To this end, we present OpenPAL, a co-training framework comprising two stages: (1) fine-tuning a pre-trained LLM to translate human instructions into goals for planning, and goal-conditioned training a policy for decision-making; (2) co-training to align the LLM and policy, achieving instruction open-endedness. We conducted experiments using Contra, an open-ended FPS game, demonstrating that an agent trained with OpenPAL not only comprehends arbitrary instructions but also exhibits efficient execution. These results suggest that OpenPAL holds the potential to construct open-ended embodied agents in practical scenarios.

------------

`[2402.01817] LLMs Can't Plan, But Can Help Planning in LLM-Modulo Frameworks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01817>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:29:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Subbarao Kambhampati [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 14:43:18 UTC (4,551 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:29:37 UTC (4,552 KB)
    Subbarao Kambhampati, Karthik Valmeekam, Lin Guan, Kaya Stechly, Mudit Verma, Siddhant Bhambri, Lucas Saldyt, Anil Murthy

There is considerable confusion about the role of Large Language Models (LLMs) in planning and reasoning tasks. On one side are over-optimistic claims that LLMs can indeed do these tasks with just the right prompting or self-verification strategies. On the other side are perhaps over-pessimistic claims that all that LLMs are good for in planning/reasoning tasks are as mere translators of the problem specification from one syntactic format to another, and ship the problem off to external symbolic solvers. In this position paper, we take the view that both these extremes are misguided. We argue that auto-regressive LLMs cannot, by themselves, do planning or self-verification (which is after all a form of reasoning), and shed some light on the reasons for misunderstandings in the literature. We will also argue that LLMs should be viewed as universal approximate knowledge sources that have much more meaningful roles to play in planning/reasoning tasks beyond simple front-end/back-end format translators. We present a vision of {\bf LLM-Modulo Frameworks} that combine the strengths of LLMs with external model-based verifiers in a tighter bi-directional interaction regime. We will show how the models driving the external verifiers themselves can be acquired with the help of LLMs. We will also argue that rather than simply pipelining LLMs and symbolic components, this LLM-Modulo Framework provides a better neuro-symbolic approach that offers tighter integration between LLMs and symbolic components, and allows extending the scope of model-based planning/reasoning regimes towards more flexible knowledge, problem and preference specifications.

------------

`[2305.06841] Think Twice: Measuring the Efficiency of Eliminating Prediction Shortcuts of Question Answering Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.06841>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:30:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Michal tefnik [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 May 2023 14:35:00 UTC (6,867 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 11:30:00 UTC (7,004 KB)
    Luk\'a\v{s} Mikula, Michal \v{S}tef\'anik, Marek Petrovi\v{c}, Petr Sojka

While the Large Language Models (LLMs) dominate a majority of language understanding tasks, previous work shows that some of these results are supported by modelling spurious correlations of training datasets. Authors commonly assess model robustness by evaluating their models on out-of-distribution (OOD) datasets of the same task, but these datasets might share the bias of the training dataset.
We propose a simple method for measuring a scale of models' reliance on any identified spurious feature and assess the robustness towards a large set of known and newly found prediction biases for various pre-trained models and debiasing methods in Question Answering (QA). We find that while existing debiasing methods can mitigate reliance on a chosen spurious feature, the OOD performance gains of these methods can not be explained by mitigated reliance on biased features, suggesting that biases are shared among different QA datasets. Finally, we evidence this to be the case by measuring that the performance of models trained on different QA datasets relies comparably on the same bias features. We hope these results will motivate future work to refine the reports of LMs' robustness to a level of adversarial samples addressing specific spurious features.

------------

`[2307.07889] LLM Comparative Assessment: Zero-shot NLG Evaluation through Pairwise Comparisons using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07889>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 17:05:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Adian Liusie [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 15 Jul 2023 22:02:12 UTC (7,816 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 16 Aug 2023 14:55:35 UTC (8,353 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 17:05:58 UTC (8,371 KB)
    Adian Liusie, Potsawee Manakul, Mark J. F. Gales

Current developments in large language models (LLMs) have enabled impressive zero-shot capabilities across various natural language tasks. An interesting application of these systems is in the automated assessment of natural language generation (NLG), a highly challenging area with great practical benefit. In this paper, we explore two options for exploiting the emergent abilities of LLMs for zero-shot NLG assessment: absolute score prediction, and comparative assessment which uses relative comparisons between pairs of candidates. Though comparative assessment has not been extensively studied in NLG assessment, we note that humans often find it more intuitive to compare two options rather than scoring each one independently. This work examines comparative assessment from multiple perspectives: performance compared to absolute grading; positional biases in the prompt; and efficient ranking in terms of the number of comparisons. We illustrate that LLM comparative assessment is a simple, general and effective approach for NLG assessment. For moderate-sized open-source LLMs, such as FlanT5 and Llama2-chat, comparative assessment is superior to prompt scoring, and in many cases can achieve performance competitive with state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, we demonstrate that LLMs often exhibit strong positional biases when making pairwise comparisons, and we propose debiasing methods that can further improve performance.

------------

`[2308.07134] Language is All a Graph Needs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.07134>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 03:08:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Yongfeng Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 14 Aug 2023 13:41:09 UTC (1,053 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 19 Aug 2023 01:38:31 UTC (1,054 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 24 Aug 2023 03:54:45 UTC (1,057 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 4 Feb 2024 22:08:05 UTC (8,673 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 03:08:44 UTC (8,673 KB)
    Ruosong Ye, Caiqi Zhang, Runhui Wang, Shuyuan Xu, Yongfeng Zhang

The emergence of large-scale pre-trained language models has revolutionized various AI research domains. Transformers-based Large Language Models (LLMs) have gradually replaced CNNs and RNNs to unify fields of computer vision and natural language processing. Compared with independent data samples such as images, videos or texts, graphs usually contain rich structural and relational information. Meanwhile, language, especially natural language, being one of the most expressive mediums, excels in describing complex structures. However, existing work on incorporating graph problems into the generative language modeling framework remains very limited. Considering the rising prominence of LLMs, it becomes essential to explore whether LLMs can also replace GNNs as the foundation model for graphs. In this paper, we propose InstructGLM (Instruction-finetuned Graph Language Model) with highly scalable prompts based on natural language instructions. We use natural language to describe multi-scale geometric structure of the graph and then instruction finetune an LLM to perform graph tasks, which enables Generative Graph Learning. Our method surpasses all GNN baselines on ogbn-arxiv, Cora and PubMed datasets, underscoring its effectiveness and sheds light on generative LLMs as new foundation model for graph machine learning. Our code is open-sourced at this https URL.

------------

`[2308.09687] Graph of Thoughts: Solving Elaborate Problems with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.09687>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:00:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Robert Gerstenberger [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 18 Aug 2023 17:29:23 UTC (839 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 21 Aug 2023 10:51:42 UTC (839 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 24 Nov 2023 09:13:54 UTC (825 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:00:18 UTC (866 KB)
    Maciej Besta, Nils Blach, Ales Kubicek, Robert Gerstenberger, Michal Podstawski, Lukas Gianinazzi, Joanna Gajda, Tomasz Lehmann, Hubert Niewiadomski, Piotr Nyczyk, Torsten Hoefler

We introduce Graph of Thoughts (GoT): a framework that advances prompting capabilities in large language models (LLMs) beyond those offered by paradigms such as Chain-of-Thought or Tree of Thoughts (ToT). The key idea and primary advantage of GoT is the ability to model the information generated by an LLM as an arbitrary graph, where units of information ("LLM thoughts") are vertices, and edges correspond to dependencies between these vertices. This approach enables combining arbitrary LLM thoughts into synergistic outcomes, distilling the essence of whole networks of thoughts, or enhancing thoughts using feedback loops. We illustrate that GoT offers advantages over state of the art on different tasks, for example increasing the quality of sorting by 62% over ToT, while simultaneously reducing costs by >31%. We ensure that GoT is extensible with new thought transformations and thus can be used to spearhead new prompting schemes. This work brings the LLM reasoning closer to human thinking or brain mechanisms such as recurrence, both of which form complex networks.

------------

`[2309.04146] NESTLE: a No-Code Tool for Statistical Analysis of Legal Corpus <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04146>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 23:28:15 GMT
    Submission history From: Wonseok Hwang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 8 Sep 2023 06:23:25 UTC (3,286 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 23:28:15 UTC (783 KB)
    Kyoungyeon Cho, Seungkum Han, Young Rok Choi, Wonseok Hwang

The statistical analysis of large scale legal corpus can provide valuable legal insights. For such analysis one needs to (1) select a subset of the corpus using document retrieval tools, (2) structure text using information extraction (IE) systems, and (3) visualize the data for the statistical analysis. Each process demands either specialized tools or programming skills whereas no comprehensive unified "no-code" tools have been available. Here we provide NESTLE, a no-code tool for large-scale statistical analysis of legal corpus. Powered by a Large Language Model (LLM) and the internal custom end-to-end IE system, NESTLE can extract any type of information that has not been predefined in the IE system opening up the possibility of unlimited customizable statistical analysis of the corpus without writing a single line of code. We validate our system on 15 Korean precedent IE tasks and 3 legal text classification tasks from LexGLUE. The comprehensive experiments reveal NESTLE can achieve GPT-4 comparable performance by training the internal IE module with 4 human-labeled, and 192 LLM-labeled examples.

------------

`[2309.11674] A Paradigm Shift in Machine Translation: Boosting Translation Performance of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11674>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:03:27 GMT
    Submission history From: Haoran Xu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Sep 2023 22:53:15 UTC (325 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:03:27 UTC (326 KB)
    Haoran Xu, Young Jin Kim, Amr Sharaf, Hany Hassan Awadalla

Generative Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable advancements in various NLP tasks. However, these advances have not been reflected in the translation task, especially those with moderate model sizes (i.e., 7B or 13B parameters), which still lag behind conventional supervised encoder-decoder translation models. Previous studies have attempted to improve the translation capabilities of these moderate LLMs, but their gains have been limited. In this study, we propose a novel fine-tuning approach for LLMs that is specifically designed for the translation task, eliminating the need for the abundant parallel data that traditional translation models usually depend on. Our approach consists of two fine-tuning stages: initial fine-tuning on monolingual data followed by subsequent fine-tuning on a small set of high-quality parallel data. We introduce the LLM developed through this strategy as Advanced Language Model-based trAnslator (ALMA). Based on LLaMA-2 as our underlying model, our results show that the model can achieve an average improvement of more than 12 BLEU and 12 COMET over its zero-shot performance across 10 translation directions from the WMT'21 (2 directions) and WMT'22 (8 directions) test datasets. The performance is significantly better than all prior work and even superior to the NLLB-54B model and GPT-3.5-text-davinci-003, with only 7B or 13B parameters. This method establishes the foundation for a novel training paradigm in machine translation.

------------

`[2310.02031] OceanGPT: A Large Language Model for Ocean Science Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02031>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 17:00:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Ningyu Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 13:17:35 UTC (12,464 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 03:35:33 UTC (12,484 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 19 Oct 2023 15:25:32 UTC (12,484 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 25 Oct 2023 10:55:38 UTC (12,484 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 17:00:08 UTC (12,545 KB)
    [v6] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 12:40:44 UTC (12,577 KB)
    Zhen Bi, Ningyu Zhang, Yida Xue, Yixin Ou, Daxiong Ji, Guozhou Zheng, Huajun Chen

Ocean science, which delves into the oceans that are reservoirs of life and biodiversity, is of great significance given that oceans cover over 70% of our planet's surface. Recently, advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have transformed the paradigm in science. Despite the success in other domains, current LLMs often fall short in catering to the needs of domain experts like oceanographers, and the potential of LLMs for ocean science is under-explored. The intrinsic reason may be the immense and intricate nature of ocean data as well as the necessity for higher granularity and richness in knowledge. To alleviate these issues, we introduce OceanGPT, the first-ever LLM in the ocean domain, which is expert in various ocean science tasks. We propose DoInstruct, a novel framework to automatically obtain a large volume of ocean domain instruction data, which generates instructions based on multi-agent collaboration. Additionally, we construct the first oceanography benchmark, OceanBench, to evaluate the capabilities of LLMs in the ocean domain. Though comprehensive experiments, OceanGPT not only shows a higher level of knowledge expertise for oceans science tasks but also gains preliminary embodied intelligence capabilities in ocean technology. Codes, data and checkpoints will soon be available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.07818] On the Relationship between Sentence Analogy Identification and Sentence Structure Encoding in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07818>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 02:24:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Thilini Wijesiriwardene [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 11 Oct 2023 18:59:48 UTC (158 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 13 Oct 2023 19:14:48 UTC (1 KB) (withdrawn)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 02:24:53 UTC (7,826 KB)
    Thilini Wijesiriwardene, Ruwan Wickramarachchi, Aishwarya Naresh Reganti, Vinija Jain, Aman Chadha, Amit Sheth, Amitava Das

The ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to encode syntactic and semantic structures of language is well examined in NLP. Additionally, analogy identification, in the form of word analogies are extensively studied in the last decade of language modeling literature. In this work we specifically look at how LLMs' abilities to capture sentence analogies (sentences that convey analogous meaning to each other) vary with LLMs' abilities to encode syntactic and semantic structures of sentences. Through our analysis, we find that LLMs' ability to identify sentence analogies is positively correlated with their ability to encode syntactic and semantic structures of sentences. Specifically, we find that the LLMs which capture syntactic structures better, also have higher abilities in identifying sentence analogies.

------------

`[2310.18168] Personas as a Way to Model Truthfulness in Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18168>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:04:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Javier Rando [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 27 Oct 2023 14:27:43 UTC (1,829 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 30 Oct 2023 13:20:39 UTC (1,829 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 21 Nov 2023 09:19:03 UTC (2,001 KB)
    [v4] Thu, 14 Dec 2023 15:14:13 UTC (2,001 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:04:04 UTC (2,004 KB)
    Nitish Joshi, Javier Rando, Abulhair Saparov, Najoung Kim, He He

Large language models (LLMs) are trained on vast amounts of text from the internet, which contains both factual and misleading information about the world. While unintuitive from a classic view of LMs, recent work has shown that the truth value of a statement can be elicited from the model's representations. This paper presents an explanation for why LMs appear to know the truth despite not being trained with truth labels. We hypothesize that the pretraining data is generated by groups of (un)truthful agents whose outputs share common features, and they form a (un)truthful persona. By training on this data, LMs can infer and represent the persona in its activation space. This allows the model to separate truth from falsehoods and controls the truthfulness of its generation. We show evidence for the persona hypothesis via two observations: (1) we can probe whether a model's answer will be truthful before it is generated; (2) finetuning a model on a set of facts improves its truthfulness on unseen topics. Next, using arithmetics as a synthetic environment, we show that structures of the pretraining data are crucial for the model to infer the truthful persona. Overall, our findings suggest that models can exploit hierarchical structures in the data to learn abstract concepts like truthfulness.

------------

`[2311.04076] Do LLMs exhibit human-like response biases? A case study in survey design <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04076>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 04:16:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Lindia Tjuatja [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 7 Nov 2023 15:40:43 UTC (1,008 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 29 Nov 2023 22:00:12 UTC (2,539 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 15 Jan 2024 17:52:31 UTC (2,539 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 15:12:06 UTC (329 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 04:16:17 UTC (329 KB)
    Lindia Tjuatja, Valerie Chen, Sherry Tongshuang Wu, Ameet Talwalkar, Graham Neubig

As large language models (LLMs) become more capable, there is growing excitement about the possibility of using LLMs as proxies for humans in real-world tasks where subjective labels are desired, such as in surveys and opinion polling. One widely-cited barrier to the adoption of LLMs as proxies for humans in subjective tasks is their sensitivity to prompt wording - but interestingly, humans also display sensitivities to instruction changes in the form of response biases. We investigate the extent to which LLMs reflect human response biases, if at all. We look to survey design, where human response biases caused by changes in the wordings of "prompts" have been extensively explored in social psychology literature. Drawing from these works, we design a dataset and framework to evaluate whether LLMs exhibit human-like response biases in survey questionnaires. Our comprehensive evaluation of nine models shows that popular open and commercial LLMs generally fail to reflect human-like behavior, particularly in models that have undergone RLHF. Furthermore, even if a model shows a significant change in the same direction as humans, we find that they are sensitive to perturbations that do not elicit significant changes in humans. These results highlight the pitfalls of using LLMs as human proxies, and underscore the need for finer-grained characterizations of model behavior. Our code, dataset, and collected samples are available at this https URL

------------

`[2311.08588] CodeScope: An Execution-based Multilingual Multitask Multidimensional Benchmark for Evaluating LLMs on Code Understanding and Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08588>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:21:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Weixiang Yan [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 23:18:52 UTC (254 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:21:50 UTC (261 KB)
    Weixiang Yan, Haitian Liu, Yunkun Wang, Yunzhe Li, Qian Chen, Wen Wang, Tingyu Lin, Weishan Zhao, Li Zhu, Shuiguang Deng, Hari Sundaram

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance on coding related tasks, particularly on assisting humans in programming and facilitating programming automation. However, existing benchmarks for evaluating the code understanding and generation capacities of LLMs suffer from severe limitations. First, most benchmarks are deficient as they focus on a narrow range of popular programming languages and specific tasks, whereas the real-world software development scenarios show dire need to implement systems with multilingual programming environments to satisfy diverse requirements. Practical programming practices also strongly expect multi-task settings for testing coding capabilities of LLMs comprehensively and robustly. Second, most benchmarks also fail to consider the actual executability and the consistency of execution results of the generated code. To bridge these gaps between existing benchmarks and expectations from practical applications, we introduce CodeScope, an execution-based, multilingual, multi-task, multi-dimensional evaluation benchmark for comprehensively gauging LLM capabilities on coding tasks. CodeScope covers 43 programming languages and 8 coding tasks. It evaluates the coding performance of LLMs from three dimensions (perspectives): difficulty, efficiency, and length. To facilitate execution-based evaluations of code generation, we develop MultiCodeEngine, an automated code execution engine that supports 14 programming languages. Finally, we systematically evaluate and analyze 8 mainstream LLMs on CodeScope tasks and demonstrate the superior breadth and challenges of CodeScope for evaluating LLMs on code understanding and generation tasks compared to other benchmarks. The CodeScope benchmark and datasets are publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2312.04511] An LLM Compiler for Parallel Function Calling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04511>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:17:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Sehoon Kim [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 7 Dec 2023 18:32:04 UTC (440 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:17:42 UTC (736 KB)
    Sehoon Kim, Suhong Moon, Ryan Tabrizi, Nicholas Lee, Michael W. Mahoney, Kurt Keutzer, Amir Gholami

Recent language models have shown remarkable results on various complex reasoning benchmarks. The reasoning capabilities of LLMs enable them to execute external function calls to overcome their inherent limitations, such as knowledge cutoffs, poor arithmetic skills, or lack of access to private data. This development has allowed LLMs to select and coordinate multiple functions based on the context to tackle more complex problems. However, current methods for multiple function calling often require sequential reasoning and acting for each function which can result in high latency, cost, and sometimes inaccurate behavior. To address this, we introduce LLMCompiler, which executes functions in parallel to efficiently orchestrate multiple function calling. Drawing from the principles of classical compilers, LLMCompiler streamlines parallel function calling with three components: (i) an LLM Planner, formulating execution plans; (ii) a Task Fetching Unit, dispatching function calling tasks; and (iii) an Executor, executing these tasks in parallel. LLMCompiler automatically generates an optimized orchestration for the function calls and can be used with both open-source and closed-source models. We have benchmarked LLMCompiler on a range of tasks with different patterns of function calling. We observe consistent latency speedup of up to 3.7x, cost savings of up to 6.7x, and accuracy improvement of up to ~9% compared to ReAct.

------------

`[2312.14215] SimLM: Can Language Models Infer Parameters of Physical Systems? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14215>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 10:15:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Sean Memery [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Dec 2023 12:05:19 UTC (1,695 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 10:15:01 UTC (7,258 KB)
    Sean Memery, Mirella Lapata, Kartic Subr

Several machine learning methods aim to learn or reason about complex physical systems. A common first-step towards reasoning is to infer system parameters from observations of its behavior. In this paper, we investigate the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) at performing parameter inference in the context of physical systems. Our experiments suggest that they are not inherently suited to this task, even for simple systems. We propose a promising direction of exploration, which involves the use of physical simulators to augment the context of LLMs. We assess and compare the performance of different LLMs on a simple example with and without access to physical simulation.

------------

`[2312.17080] MR-GSM8K: A Meta-Reasoning Revolution in Large Language Model Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17080>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 12:27:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhongshen Zeng [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Dec 2023 15:49:43 UTC (1,358 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 14:08:16 UTC (1,364 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 12:27:52 UTC (1,364 KB)
    Zhongshen Zeng, Pengguang Chen, Shu Liu, Haiyun Jiang, Jiaya Jia

In this work, we introduce a novel evaluation paradigm for Large Language Models, one that challenges them to engage in meta-reasoning. This approach addresses critical shortcomings in existing math problem-solving benchmarks, traditionally used to evaluate the cognitive capabilities of agents. Our paradigm shifts the focus from result-oriented assessments, which often overlook the reasoning process, to a more holistic evaluation that effectively differentiates the cognitive capabilities among models. For example, in our benchmark, GPT-4 demonstrates a performance five times better than GPT3-5. The significance of this new paradigm lies in its ability to reveal potential cognitive deficiencies in LLMs that current benchmarks, such as GSM8K, fail to uncover due to their saturation and lack of effective differentiation among varying reasoning abilities. Our comprehensive analysis includes several state-of-the-art math models from both open-source and closed-source communities, uncovering fundamental deficiencies in their training and evaluation approaches. This paper not only advocates for a paradigm shift in the assessment of LLMs but also contributes to the ongoing discourse on the trajectory towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). By promoting the adoption of meta-reasoning evaluation methods similar to ours, we aim to facilitate a more accurate assessment of the true cognitive abilities of LLMs.

------------

`[2401.07237] Distilling Event Sequence Knowledge From Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.07237>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 14:50:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Somin Wadhwa [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 14 Jan 2024 09:34:42 UTC (8,612 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 14:50:32 UTC (8,614 KB)
    Somin Wadhwa, Oktie Hassanzadeh, Debarun Bhattacharjya, Ken Barker, Jian Ni

Event sequence models have been found to be highly effective in the analysis and prediction of events. Building such models requires availability of abundant high-quality event sequence data. In certain applications, however, clean structured event sequences are not available, and automated sequence extraction results in data that is too noisy and incomplete. In this work, we explore the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate event sequences that can effectively be used for probabilistic event model construction. This can be viewed as a mechanism of distilling event sequence knowledge from LLMs. Our approach relies on a Knowledge Graph (KG) of event concepts with partial causal relations to guide the generative language model for causal event sequence generation. We show that our approach can generate high-quality event sequences, filling a knowledge gap in the input KG. Furthermore, we explore how the generated sequences can be leveraged to discover useful and more complex structured knowledge from pattern mining and probabilistic event models. We release our sequence generation code and evaluation framework, as well as corpus of event sequence data.

------------

`[2401.13227] LPNL: Scalable Link Prediction with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13227>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:39:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Baolong Bi [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 Jan 2024 04:50:16 UTC (7,901 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:39:54 UTC (7,677 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 03:53:06 UTC (7,716 KB)
    Baolong Bi, Shenghua Liu, Yiwei Wang, Lingrui Mei and Xueqi Cheng

Exploring the application of large language models (LLMs) to graph learning is a emerging endeavor. However, the vast amount of information inherent in large graphs poses significant challenges to this process. This work focuses on the link prediction task and introduces $\textbf{LPNL}$ (Link Prediction via Natural Language), a framework based on large language models designed for scalable link prediction on large-scale heterogeneous graphs. We design novel prompts for link prediction that articulate graph details in natural language. We propose a two-stage sampling pipeline to extract crucial information from the graphs, and a divide-and-conquer strategy to control the input tokens within predefined limits, addressing the challenge of overwhelming information. We fine-tune a T5 model based on our self-supervised learning designed for link prediction. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that LPNL outperforms multiple advanced baselines in link prediction tasks on large-scale graphs.

------------

`[2401.15656] LLsM: Generative Linguistic Steganography with Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15656>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 14:55:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Yihao Wang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 28 Jan 2024 13:21:44 UTC (205 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 14:55:56 UTC (241 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 03:50:39 UTC (748 KB)
    Yihao Wang and Ruiqi Song and Ru Zhang and Jianyi Liu and Lingxiao Li

Linguistic Steganography (LS) tasks aim to generate steganographic text (stego) based on secret information. Only authorized recipients can perceive the existence of the stegos and extract secrets, thereby preserving privacy. However, existing LS methods do not consider the controllable generation of stegos containing specific discourses such as style, genre, and theme. And they are difficult to simulate high-quality natural texts. As a result, the stegos are easily perceived and detectable, compromising covert communication. This paper proposes the LLsM, the first LS work with the Large Language Model (LLM). Regarding open-source LLMs, we reconstruct the token generator of LLM to the "stego generator" so that it can control the generation of stego based on the secret. In this "stego generator", the candidate pool is encoded by range coding, and the adjustment factor for the interval length is also given. The secret determines the interval, thereby determining the next token. This better simulates the distribution of natural texts and controls the adjustment of the embedding rate. In addition, we preliminarily built an LLsM-c architecture for closed-source LLMs. It encodes discourse to obtain high-quality prompts containing discourse based on secrets, and generates pure natural texts containing discourse. Experiments show that LLsM performs superior to prevalent LS and related-task baselines regarding various kinds of concealment and anti-steganalysis. LLsM's MAUVE surpasses baselines by 60%-80% and anti-steganalysis exceeds baselines by 20%-30%. Notably, LLsM can also generate longer stegos with high quality, showing its advantages in understanding and coherence.

------------

`[2402.01685] SMUTF: Schema Matching Using Generative Tags and Hybrid Features <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01685>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:03:13 GMT
    Submission history From: Haozheng Luo [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 08:47:50 UTC (5,625 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:03:13 UTC (5,751 KB)
    Yu Zhang, Mei Di, Haozheng Luo, Chenwei Xu, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai

We introduce SMUTF, a unique approach for large-scale tabular data schema matching (SM), which assumes that supervised learning does not affect performance in open-domain tasks, thereby enabling effective cross-domain matching. This system uniquely combines rule-based feature engineering, pre-trained language models, and generative large language models. In an innovative adaptation inspired by the Humanitarian Exchange Language, we deploy 'generative tags' for each data column, enhancing the effectiveness of SM. SMUTF exhibits extensive versatility, working seamlessly with any pre-existing pre-trained embeddings, classification methods, and generative models.
Recognizing the lack of extensive, publicly available datasets for SM, we have created and open-sourced the HDXSM dataset from the public humanitarian data. We believe this to be the most exhaustive SM dataset currently available. In evaluations across various public datasets and the novel HDXSM dataset, SMUTF demonstrated exceptional performance, surpassing existing state-of-the-art models in terms of accuracy and efficiency, and} improving the F1 score by 11.84% and the AUC of ROC by 5.08%.

------------

`[2402.01704] States as Strings as Strategies: Steering Language Models with Game-Theoretic Solvers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01704>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:53:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Siqi Liu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 Jan 2024 22:22:00 UTC (3,411 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:53:11 UTC (3,411 KB)
    Ian Gemp, Yoram Bachrach, Marc Lanctot, Roma Patel, Vibhavari Dasagi, Luke Marris, Georgios Piliouras, Siqi Liu, Karl Tuyls

Game theory is the study of mathematical models of strategic interactions among rational agents. Language is a key medium of interaction for humans, though it has historically proven difficult to model dialogue and its strategic motivations mathematically. A suitable model of the players, strategies, and payoffs associated with linguistic interactions (i.e., a binding to the conventional symbolic logic of game theory) would enable existing game-theoretic algorithms to provide strategic solutions in the space of language. In other words, a binding could provide a route to computing stable, rational conversational strategies in dialogue. Large language models (LLMs) have arguably reached a point where their generative capabilities can enable realistic, human-like simulations of natural dialogue. By prompting them in various ways, we can steer their responses towards different output utterances. Leveraging the expressivity of natural language, LLMs can also help us quickly generate new dialogue scenarios, which are grounded in real world applications. In this work, we present one possible binding from dialogue to game theory as well as generalizations of existing equilibrium finding algorithms to this setting. In addition, by exploiting LLMs generation capabilities along with our proposed binding, we can synthesize a large repository of formally-defined games in which one can study and test game-theoretic solution concepts. We also demonstrate how one can combine LLM-driven game generation, game-theoretic solvers, and imitation learning to construct a process for improving the strategic capabilities of LLMs.

------------

`[2402.02380] Evaluating Large Language Models in Analysing Classroom Dialogue <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02380>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:49:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Yun Long [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 4 Feb 2024 07:39:06 UTC (1,048 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:49:32 UTC (1,048 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 02:19:09 UTC (1,049 KB)
    Yun Long, Haifeng Luo, Yu Zhang

This study explores the application of Large Language Models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4, in the analysis of classroom dialogue, a crucial research task for both teaching diagnosis and quality improvement. Recognizing the knowledge-intensive and labor-intensive nature of traditional qualitative methods in educational research, this study investigates the potential of LLM to streamline and enhance the analysis process. The study involves datasets from a middle school, encompassing classroom dialogues across mathematics and Chinese classes. These dialogues were manually coded by educational experts and then analyzed using a customised GPT-4 model. This study focuses on comparing manual annotations with the outputs of GPT-4 to evaluate its efficacy in analyzing educational dialogues. Time efficiency, inter-coder agreement, and inter-coder reliability between human coders and GPT-4 are evaluated. Results indicate substantial time savings with GPT-4, and a high degree of consistency in coding between the model and human coders, with some discrepancies in specific codes. These findings highlight the strong potential of LLM in teaching evaluation and facilitation.

------------

`[2402.02416] Aligner: Achieving Efficient Alignment through Weak-to-Strong Correction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02416>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:02:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiaming Ji [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 4 Feb 2024 09:24:51 UTC (2,207 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:02:01 UTC (2,206 KB)
    Jiaming Ji, Boyuan Chen, Hantao Lou, Donghai Hong, Borong Zhang, Xuehai Pan, Juntao Dai, Yaodong Yang

Efforts to align Large Language Models (LLMs) are mainly conducted via Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) methods. However, RLHF encounters major challenges including training reward models, actor-critic engineering, and importantly, it requires access to LLM parameters. Here we introduce Aligner, a new efficient alignment paradigm that bypasses the whole RLHF process by learning the correctional residuals between the aligned and the unaligned answers. Our Aligner offers several key advantages. Firstly, it is an autoregressive seq2seq model that is trained on the query-answer-correction dataset via supervised learning; this offers a parameter-efficient alignment solution with minimal resources. Secondly, the Aligner facilitates weak-to-strong generalization; finetuning large pretrained models by Aligner's supervisory signals demonstrates strong performance boost. Thirdly, Aligner functions as a model-agnostic plug-and-play module, allowing for its direct application on different open-source and API-based models. Remarkably, Aligner-7B improves 11 different LLMs by 21.9% in helpfulness and 23.8% in harmlessness on average (GPT-4 by 17.5% and 26.9%). When finetuning (strong) Llama2-70B with (weak) Aligner-13B's supervision, we can improve Llama2 by 8.2% in helpfulness and 61.6% in harmlessness. See our dataset and code at this https URL

------------

`[2402.02791] Rethinking Optimization and Architecture for Tiny Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02791>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:38:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Yehui Tang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 07:59:38 UTC (350 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:38:26 UTC (350 KB)
    Yehui Tang, Fangcheng Liu, Yunsheng Ni, Yuchuan Tian, Zheyuan Bai, Yi-Qi Hu, Sichao Liu, Shangling Jui, Kai Han, Yunhe Wang

The power of large language models (LLMs) has been demonstrated through numerous data and computing resources. However, the application of language models on mobile devices is facing huge challenge on the computation and memory costs, that is, tiny language models with high performance are urgently required. Limited by the highly complex training process, there are many details for optimizing language models that are seldom studied carefully. In this study, based on a tiny language model with 1B parameters, we carefully design a series of empirical study to analyze the effect of each component. Three perspectives are mainly discussed, \ie, neural architecture, parameter initialization, and optimization strategy. Several design formulas are empirically proved especially effective for tiny language models, including tokenizer compression, architecture tweaking, parameter inheritance and multiple-round training. Then we train PanGu-$\pi$-1B Pro and PanGu-$\pi$-1.5B Pro on 1.6T multilingual corpora, following the established formulas. Experimental results demonstrate the improved optimization and architecture yield a notable average improvement of 8.87 on benchmark evaluation sets for PanGu-$\pi$-1B Pro. Besides, PanGu-$\pi$-1.5B Pro surpasses a range of SOTA models with larger model sizes, validating its superior performance. The code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.03049] EasyInstruct: An Easy-to-use Instruction Processing Framework for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03049>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 02:51:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Ningyu Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 14:33:56 UTC (2,686 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 02:51:23 UTC (2,686 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 15:33:34 UTC (2,687 KB)
    Yixin Ou, Ningyu Zhang, Honghao Gui, Ziwen Xu, Shuofei Qiao, Yida Xue, Runnan Fang, Kangwei Liu, Lei Li, Zhen Bi, Guozhou Zheng, Huajun Chen

In recent years, instruction tuning has gained increasing attention and emerged as a crucial technique to enhance the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). To construct high-quality instruction datasets, many instruction processing approaches have been proposed, aiming to achieve a delicate balance between data quantity and data quality. Nevertheless, due to inconsistencies that persist among various instruction processing methods, there is no standard open-source instruction processing implementation framework available for the community, which hinders practitioners from further developing and advancing. To facilitate instruction processing research and development, we present EasyInstruct, an easy-to-use instruction processing framework for LLMs, which modularizes instruction generation, selection, and prompting, while also considering their combination and interaction. EasyInstruct is publicly released and actively maintained at this https URL, along with an online demo app and a demo video for quick-start, calling for broader research centered on instruction data and synthetic data.

------------

`[2308.06911] GIT-Mol: A Multi-modal Large Language Model for Molecular Science with Graph, Image, and Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.06911>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:03:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Pengfei Liu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 14 Aug 2023 03:12:29 UTC (12,073 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 4 Jan 2024 02:22:07 UTC (3,184 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:03:53 UTC (1,735 KB)
    Pengfei Liu, Yiming Ren, Jun Tao and Zhixiang Ren

Large language models have made significant strides in natural language processing, enabling innovative applications in molecular science by processing textual representations of molecules. However, most existing language models cannot capture the rich information with complex molecular structures or images. In this paper, we introduce GIT-Mol, a multi-modal large language model that integrates the Graph, Image, and Text information. To facilitate the integration of multi-modal molecular data, we propose GIT-Former, a novel architecture that is capable of aligning all modalities into a unified latent space. We achieve a 5%-10% accuracy increase in properties prediction and a 20.2% boost in molecule generation validity compared to the baselines. With the any-to-language molecular translation strategy, our model has the potential to perform more downstream tasks, such as compound name recognition and chemical reaction prediction.

------------

`[2308.13111] Bayesian Low-rank Adaptation for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13111>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 21:16:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Adam Yang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 24 Aug 2023 23:06:21 UTC (186 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 28 Aug 2023 00:38:43 UTC (185 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 4 Oct 2023 16:29:23 UTC (624 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 28 Jan 2024 12:23:21 UTC (643 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 21:16:52 UTC (644 KB)
    Adam X. Yang, Maxime Robeyns, Xi Wang, Laurence Aitchison

Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) has emerged as a new paradigm for cost-efficient fine-tuning of large language models (LLMs). However, fine-tuned LLMs often become overconfident especially when fine-tuned on small datasets. Bayesian methods, with their inherent ability to estimate uncertainty, serve as potent tools to mitigate overconfidence and enhance calibration. In this work, we introduce Laplace-LoRA, which applies a Bayesian approach to the LoRA parameters. Specifically, Laplace-LoRA applies a Laplace approximation to the posterior over the LoRA parameters, considerably improving the calibration of fine-tuned LLMs.

------------

`[2308.15812] Peering Through Preferences: Unraveling Feedback Acquisition for Aligning Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.15812>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 19:59:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Hritik Bansal [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 30 Aug 2023 07:35:32 UTC (188 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 20:44:17 UTC (715 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 19:59:46 UTC (715 KB)
    Hritik Bansal, John Dang, Aditya Grover

Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human values and intents critically involves the use of human or AI feedback. While dense feedback annotations are expensive to acquire and integrate, sparse feedback presents a structural design choice between ratings (e.g., score Response A on a scale of 1-7) and rankings (e.g., is Response A better than Response B?). In this work, we analyze the effect of this design choice for the alignment and evaluation of LLMs. We uncover an inconsistency problem wherein the preferences inferred from ratings and rankings significantly disagree 60% for both human and AI annotators. Our subsequent analysis identifies various facets of annotator biases that explain this phenomena, such as human annotators would rate denser responses higher while preferring accuracy during pairwise judgments. To our surprise, we also observe that the choice of feedback protocol also has a significant effect on the evaluation of aligned LLMs. In particular, we find that LLMs that leverage rankings data for alignment (say model X) are preferred over those that leverage ratings data (say model Y), with a rank-based evaluation protocol (is X/Y's response better than reference response?) but not with a rating-based evaluation protocol (score Rank X/Y's response on a scale of 1-7). Our findings thus shed light on critical gaps in methods for evaluating the real-world utility of language models and their strong dependence on the feedback protocol used for alignment. Our code and data are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.03191] DeepInception: Hypnotize Large Language Model to Be Jailbreaker <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03191>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:24:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Xuan Li [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 6 Nov 2023 15:29:30 UTC (3,933 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 5 Dec 2023 07:35:24 UTC (3,925 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 07:24:34 UTC (9,347 KB)
    Xuan Li, Zhanke Zhou, Jianing Zhu, Jiangchao Yao, Tongliang Liu, Bo Han

Despite remarkable success in various applications, large language models (LLMs) are vulnerable to adversarial jailbreaks that make the safety guardrails void. However, previous studies for jailbreaks usually resort to brute-force optimization or extrapolations of a high computation cost, which might not be practical or effective. In this paper, inspired by the Milgram experiment w.r.t. the authority power for inciting harmfulness, we disclose a lightweight method, termed DeepInception, which can easily hypnotize LLM to be a jailbreaker. Specifically, DeepInception leverages the personification ability of LLM to construct a novel nested scene to behave, which realizes an adaptive way to escape the usage control in a normal scenario. Empirically, our DeepInception can achieve competitive jailbreak success rates with previous counterparts and realize a continuous jailbreak in subsequent interactions, which reveals the critical weakness of self-losing on both open and closed-source LLMs like Falcon, Vicuna-v1.5, Llama-2, and GPT-3.5-turbo/4. Our investigation appeals to people to pay more attention to the safety aspects of LLMs and develop a stronger defense against their misuse risks. The code is publicly available at: this https URL.

------------

`[2312.10794] A mathematical perspective on Transformers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10794>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:06:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Borjan Geshkovski [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 17 Dec 2023 19:06:29 UTC (7,096 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 22 Dec 2023 12:47:06 UTC (6,673 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 08:06:11 UTC (6,761 KB)
    Borjan Geshkovski, Cyril Letrouit, Yury Polyanskiy, Philippe Rigollet

Transformers play a central role in the inner workings of large language models. We develop a mathematical framework for analyzing Transformers based on their interpretation as interacting particle systems, which reveals that clusters emerge in long time. Our study explores the underlying theory and offers new perspectives for mathematicians as well as computer scientists.

------------

`[2401.06118] Extreme Compression of Large Language Models via Additive Quantization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06118>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:55:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Vage Egiazarian [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 18:54:44 UTC (2,320 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:55:25 UTC (2,993 KB)
    Vage Egiazarian, Andrei Panferov, Denis Kuznedelev, Elias Frantar, Artem Babenko, Dan Alistarh

The emergence of accurate open large language models (LLMs) has led to a race towards quantization techniques for such models enabling execution on end-user devices. In this paper, we revisit the problem of "extreme" LLM compression--defined as targeting extremely low bit counts, such as 2 to 3 bits per parameter, from the point of view of classic methods in Multi-Codebook Quantization (MCQ). Our work builds on top of Additive Quantization, a classic algorithm from the MCQ family, and adapts it to the quantization of language models. The resulting algorithm advances the state-of-the-art in LLM compression, outperforming all recently-proposed techniques in terms of accuracy at a given compression budget. For instance, when compressing Llama 2 models to 2 bits per parameter, our algorithm quantizes the 7B model to 6.93 perplexity (a 1.29 improvement relative to the best prior work, and 1.81 points from FP16), the 13B model to 5.70 perplexity (a .36 improvement) and the 70B model to 3.94 perplexity (a .22 improvement) on WikiText2. We release our implementation of Additive Quantization for Language Models AQLM as a baseline to facilitate future research in LLM quantization.

------------

`[2402.00854] SymbolicAI: A framework for logic-based approaches combining generative models and solvers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00854>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 21:22:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Marius-Constantin Dinu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 1 Feb 2024 18:50:50 UTC (4,777 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 21:22:18 UTC (4,816 KB)
    Marius-Constantin Dinu and Claudiu Leoveanu-Condrei and Markus Holzleitner and Werner Zellinger and Sepp Hochreiter

We introduce SymbolicAI, a versatile and modular framework employing a logic-based approach to concept learning and flow management in generative processes. SymbolicAI enables the seamless integration of generative models with a diverse range of solvers by treating large language models (LLMs) as semantic parsers that execute tasks based on both natural and formal language instructions, thus bridging the gap between symbolic reasoning and generative AI. We leverage probabilistic programming principles to tackle complex tasks, and utilize differentiable and classical programming paradigms with their respective strengths. The framework introduces a set of polymorphic, compositional, and self-referential operations for data stream manipulation, aligning LLM outputs with user objectives. As a result, we can transition between the capabilities of various foundation models endowed with zero- and few-shot learning capabilities and specialized, fine-tuned models or solvers proficient in addressing specific problems. In turn, the framework facilitates the creation and evaluation of explainable computational graphs. We conclude by introducing a quality measure and its empirical score for evaluating these computational graphs, and propose a benchmark that compares various state-of-the-art LLMs across a set of complex workflows. We refer to the empirical score as the "Vector Embedding for Relational Trajectory Evaluation through Cross-similarity", or VERTEX score for short. The framework codebase and benchmark are linked below.

------------

`[2402.01801] Large Language Models for Time Series: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01801>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:34:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiyuan Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 07:24:35 UTC (194 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 05:34:17 UTC (194 KB)
    Xiyuan Zhang, Ranak Roy Chowdhury, Rajesh K. Gupta, Jingbo Shang

Large Language Models (LLMs) have seen significant use in domains such as natural language processing and computer vision. Going beyond text, image and graphics, LLMs present a significant potential for analysis of time series data, benefiting domains such as climate, IoT, healthcare, traffic, audio and finance. This survey paper provides an in-depth exploration and a detailed taxonomy of the various methodologies employed to harness the power of LLMs for time series analysis. We address the inherent challenge of bridging the gap between LLMs' original text data training and the numerical nature of time series data, and explore strategies for transferring and distilling knowledge from LLMs to numerical time series analysis. We detail various methodologies, including (1) direct prompting of LLMs, (2) time series quantization, (3) alignment techniques, (4) utilization of the vision modality as a bridging mechanism, and (5) the combination of LLMs with tools. Additionally, this survey offers a comprehensive overview of the existing multimodal time series and text datasets and delves into the challenges and future opportunities of this emerging field. We maintain an up-to-date Github repository which includes all the papers and datasets discussed in the survey.

------------

`[2402.01881] Large Language Model Agent for Hyper-Parameter Optimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01881>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:03:09 GMT
    Submission history From: Siyi Liu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 2 Feb 2024 20:12:05 UTC (2,099 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:03:09 UTC (2,099 KB)
    Siyi Liu, Chen Gao, Yong Li

Hyperparameter optimization is critical in modern machine learning, requiring expert knowledge, numerous trials, and high computational and human resources. Despite the advancements in Automated Machine Learning (AutoML), challenges in terms of trial efficiency, setup complexity, and interoperability still persist. To address these issues, we introduce a novel paradigm leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to automate hyperparameter optimization across diverse machine learning tasks, which is named AgentHPO (short for LLM Agent-based Hyperparameter Optimization). Specifically, AgentHPO processes the task information autonomously, conducts experiments with specific hyperparameters (HPs), and iteratively optimizes them based on historical trials. This human-like optimization process largely reduces the number of required trials, simplifies the setup process, and enhances interpretability and user trust, compared to traditional AutoML methods. Extensive empirical experiments conducted on 12 representative machine-learning tasks indicate that AgentHPO not only matches but also often surpasses the best human trials in terms of performance while simultaneously providing explainable results. Further analysis sheds light on the strategies employed by the LLM in optimizing these tasks, highlighting its effectiveness and adaptability in various scenarios.

------------

`[2402.02018] The Landscape and Challenges of HPC Research and LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02018>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:47:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Le Chen [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 3 Feb 2024 04:21:07 UTC (371 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 15:47:26 UTC (371 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 01:51:21 UTC (371 KB)
    Le Chen, Nesreen K. Ahmed, Akash Dutta, Arijit Bhattacharjee, Sixing Yu, Quazi Ishtiaque Mahmud, Waqwoya Abebe, Hung Phan, Aishwarya Sarkar, Branden Butler, Niranjan Hasabnis, Gal Oren, Vy A. Vo, Juan Pablo Munoz, Theodore L. Willke, Tim Mattson, Ali Jannesari

Recently, language models (LMs), especially large language models (LLMs), have revolutionized the field of deep learning. Both encoder-decoder models and prompt-based techniques have shown immense potential for natural language processing and code-based tasks. Over the past several years, many research labs and institutions have invested heavily in high-performance computing, approaching or breaching exascale performance levels. In this paper, we posit that adapting and utilizing such language model-based techniques for tasks in high-performance computing (HPC) would be very beneficial. This study presents our reasoning behind the aforementioned position and highlights how existing ideas can be improved and adapted for HPC tasks.

------------

`[2305.14330] DirecT2V: Large Language Models are Frame-Level Directors for Zero-Shot Text-to-Video Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14330>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:44:30 GMT
    Submission history From: Susung Hong [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 May 2023 17:57:09 UTC (15,415 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 1 Jun 2023 04:14:59 UTC (15,387 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:44:30 UTC (24,926 KB)
    Susung Hong, Junyoung Seo, Heeseong Shin, Sunghwan Hong, Seungryong Kim

In the paradigm of AI-generated content (AIGC), there has been increasing attention to transferring knowledge from pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) models to text-to-video (T2V) generation. Despite their effectiveness, these frameworks face challenges in maintaining consistent narratives and handling shifts in scene composition or object placement from a single abstract user prompt. Exploring the ability of large language models (LLMs) to generate time-dependent, frame-by-frame prompts, this paper introduces a new framework, dubbed DirecT2V. DirecT2V leverages instruction-tuned LLMs as directors, enabling the inclusion of time-varying content and facilitating consistent video generation. To maintain temporal consistency and prevent mapping the value to a different object, we equip a diffusion model with a novel value mapping method and dual-softmax filtering, which do not require any additional training. The experimental results validate the effectiveness of our framework in producing visually coherent and storyful videos from abstract user prompts, successfully addressing the challenges of zero-shot video generation.

------------

`[2309.01516] MultiWay-Adapater: Adapting large-scale multi-modal models for scalable image-text retrieval <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01516>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 5 Feb 2024 22:43:45 GMT
    Submission history From: Zijun Long [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 4 Sep 2023 10:48:29 UTC (986 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 12 Sep 2023 20:16:04 UTC (2,469 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 22:43:45 UTC (2,470 KB)
    Zijun Long, George Killick, Richard McCreadie, Gerardo Aragon Camarasa

As Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) grow in size, adapting them to specialized tasks becomes increasingly challenging due to high computational and memory demands. Indeed, traditional fine-tuning methods are costly, due to the need for extensive, task-specific training. While efficient adaptation methods exist that aim to reduce these costs, in practice they suffer from shallow inter-modal alignment, which severely hurts model effectiveness. To tackle these computational challenges and improve inter-modal alignment, we introduce the MultiWay-Adapter (MWA), a novel framework featuring an 'Alignment Enhancer'. This enhancer deepens inter-modal alignment, enabling high transferability with minimal tuning effort. Our experiments show that unlike prior efficient tuning approaches, MWA maintains model effectiveness, while reducing training time by up-to 57%. MWA is also lightweight, increasing model size by only 2-3% (in terms of parameters) for state-of-the-art foundation models like BEiT-3 Large. These results demonstrate that MWA provides an efficient and effective adaptation method for MLLMs, significantly broadening their applicability.

------------

`[2402.01763] When Large Language Models Meet Vector Databases: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01763>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:25:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhi Jing [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 23:35:28 UTC (663 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 01:25:18 UTC (681 KB)
    Zhi Jing, Yongye Su, Yikun Han, Bo Yuan, Haiyun Xu, Chunjiang Liu, Kehai Chen, Min Zhang

This survey explores the synergistic potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vector Databases (VecDBs), a burgeoning but rapidly evolving research area. With the proliferation of LLMs comes a host of challenges, including hallucinations, outdated knowledge, prohibitive commercial application costs, and memory issues. VecDBs emerge as a compelling solution to these issues by offering an efficient means to store, retrieve, and manage the high-dimensional vector representations intrinsic to LLM operations. Through this nuanced review, we delineate the foundational principles of LLMs and VecDBs and critically analyze their integration's impact on enhancing LLM functionalities. This discourse extends into a discussion on the speculative future developments in this domain, aiming to catalyze further research into optimizing the confluence of LLMs and VecDBs for advanced data handling and knowledge extraction capabilities.

------------

`[2311.16839] Beyond Hallucinations: Enhancing LVLMs through Hallucination-Aware Direct Preference Optimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.16839>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 16:43:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Bin Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 28 Nov 2023 14:54:37 UTC (2,321 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 16:43:31 UTC (4,061 KB)
    Zhiyuan Zhao, Bin Wang, Linke Ouyang, Xiaoyi Dong, Jiaqi Wang, Conghui He

Multimodal large language models have made significant advancements in recent years, yet they still suffer from a common issue known as the "hallucination problem", in which the models generate textual descriptions that inaccurately depict or entirely fabricate content from associated images. This paper introduces a novel solution, Hallucination-Aware Direct Preference Optimization (HA-DPO), which reframes the hallucination problem as a preference selection task. The model is trained to favor the non-hallucinating response when presented with two responses of the same image (one accurate and one hallucinatory). Furthermore, this paper proposes an efficient pipeline for constructing positive~(non-hallucinatory) and negative~(hallucinatory) sample pairs, ensuring a high-quality, style-consistent dataset for robust preference learning. When applied to three mainstream multimodal models, HA-DPO significantly reduced hallucination issues and amplified the models' generalization capabilities. Notably, the MiniGPT-4 model, when enhanced with HA-DPO, demonstrated a substantial improvement: POPE accuracy rose from 51.13% to 86.13% (an absolute improvement of 35%), and the MME score surged from 932.00 to 1326.46 (a relative improvement of 42.32%). The codes, models, and datasets are made accessible at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.03161] Video-LaVIT: Unified Video-Language Pre-training with Decoupled Visual-Motional Tokenization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03161>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:35:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Yang Jin [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 16:30:49 UTC (31,035 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 06:35:36 UTC (31,035 KB)
    Yang Jin, Zhicheng Sun, Kun Xu, Kun Xu, Liwei Chen, Hao Jiang, Quzhe Huang, Chengru Song, Yuliang Liu, Di Zhang, Yang Song, Kun Gai, Yadong Mu

In light of recent advances in multimodal Large Language Models (LLMs), there is increasing attention to scaling them from image-text data to more informative real-world videos. Compared to static images, video poses unique challenges for effective large-scale pre-training due to the modeling of its spatiotemporal dynamics. In this paper, we address such limitations in video-language pre-training with an efficient video decomposition that represents each video as keyframes and temporal motions. These are then adapted to an LLM using well-designed tokenizers that discretize visual and temporal information as a few tokens, thus enabling unified generative pre-training of videos, images, and text. At inference, the generated tokens from the LLM are carefully recovered to the original continuous pixel space to create various video content. Our proposed framework is both capable of comprehending and generating image and video content, as demonstrated by its competitive performance across 13 multimodal benchmarks in image and video understanding and generation. Our code and models will be available at this https URL.
