240228
========

`[2402.16905] Enforcing Temporal Constraints on Generative Agent Behavior with Reactive Synthesis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16905>`__

::

    Sat, 24 Feb 2024 21:36:26 GMT
    Raven Rothkopf, Hannah Tongxin Zeng, Mark Santolucito

The surge in popularity of Large Language Models (LLMs) has opened doors for new approaches to the creation of interactive agents. However, managing the temporal behavior of such agents over the course of an interaction remains challenging. The stateful, long-term horizon and quantitative reasoning required for coherent agent behavior does not fit well into the LLM paradigm.
We propose a combination of formal logic-based program synthesis and LLM content generation to create generative agents that adhere to temporal constraints. Our approach uses Temporal Stream Logic (TSL) to generate an automaton that enforces a temporal structure on an agent and leaves the details of each action for a moment in time to an LLM. By using TSL, we are able to augment the generative agent where users have a higher level of guarantees on behavior, better interpretability of the system, and more ability to build agents in a modular way. We evaluate our approach on different tasks involved in creating a coherent interactive agent specialized for various application domains. We found that over all of the tasks, our approach using TSL achieves at least 96% adherence, whereas the pure LLM-based approach demonstrates as low as 14.67% adherence.

------------

`[2402.17161] Large Language Model for Participatory Urban Planning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17161>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 02:47:50 GMT
    Zhilun Zhou, Yuming Lin, Depeng Jin, Yong Li

Participatory urban planning is the mainstream of modern urban planning that involves the active engagement of residents. However, the traditional participatory paradigm requires experienced planning experts and is often time-consuming and costly. Fortunately, the emerging Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown considerable ability to simulate human-like agents, which can be used to emulate the participatory process easily. In this work, we introduce an LLM-based multi-agent collaboration framework for participatory urban planning, which can generate land-use plans for urban regions considering the diverse needs of residents. Specifically, we construct LLM agents to simulate a planner and thousands of residents with diverse profiles and backgrounds. We first ask the planner to carry out an initial land-use plan. To deal with the different facilities needs of residents, we initiate a discussion among the residents in each community about the plan, where residents provide feedback based on their profiles. Furthermore, to improve the efficiency of discussion, we adopt a fishbowl discussion mechanism, where part of the residents discuss and the rest of them act as listeners in each round. Finally, we let the planner modify the plan based on residents' feedback. We deploy our method on two real-world regions in Beijing. Experiments show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in residents satisfaction and inclusion metrics, and also outperforms human experts in terms of service accessibility and ecology metrics.

------------

`[2402.17168] Benchmarking Data Science Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17168>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 03:03:06 GMT
    Yuge Zhang, Qiyang Jiang, Xingyu Han, Nan Chen, Yuqing Yang, Kan Ren

In the era of data-driven decision-making, the complexity of data analysis necessitates advanced expertise and tools of data science, presenting significant challenges even for specialists. Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as promising aids as data science agents, assisting humans in data analysis and processing. Yet their practical efficacy remains constrained by the varied demands of real-world applications and complicated analytical process. In this paper, we introduce DSEval -- a novel evaluation paradigm, as well as a series of innovative benchmarks tailored for assessing the performance of these agents throughout the entire data science lifecycle.
Incorporating a novel bootstrapped annotation method, we streamline dataset preparation, improve the evaluation coverage, and expand benchmarking comprehensiveness. Our findings uncover prevalent obstacles and provide critical insights to inform future advancements in the field.

------------

`[2402.17270] Multi-Agent, Human-Agent and Beyond: A Survey on Cooperation in Social Dilemmas <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17270>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:31:30 GMT
    Hao Guo, Chunjiang Mu, Yang Chen, Chen Shen, Shuyue Hu, Zhen Wang

The study of cooperation within social dilemmas has long been a fundamental topic across various disciplines, including computer science and social science. Recent advancements in Artificial Intelligence (AI) have significantly reshaped this field, offering fresh insights into understanding and enhancing cooperation. This survey examines three key areas at the intersection of AI and cooperation in social dilemmas. First, focusing on multi-agent cooperation, we review the intrinsic and external motivations that support cooperation among rational agents, and the methods employed to develop effective strategies against diverse opponents. Second, looking into human-agent cooperation, we discuss the current AI algorithms for cooperating with humans and the human biases towards AI agents. Third, we review the emergent field of leveraging AI agents to enhance cooperation among humans. We conclude by discussing future research avenues, such as using large language models, establishing unified theoretical frameworks, revisiting existing theories of human cooperation, and exploring multiple real-world applications.

------------

`[2402.17385] Determinants of LLM-assisted Decision-Making <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17385>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:24:50 GMT
    Eva Eigner and Thorsten H\"andler

Decision-making is a fundamental capability in everyday life. Large Language Models (LLMs) provide multifaceted support in enhancing human decision-making processes. However, understanding the influencing factors of LLM-assisted decision-making is crucial for enabling individuals to utilize LLM-provided advantages and minimize associated risks in order to make more informed and better decisions. This study presents the results of a comprehensive literature analysis, providing a structural overview and detailed analysis of determinants impacting decision-making with LLM support. In particular, we explore the effects of technological aspects of LLMs, including transparency and prompt engineering, psychological factors such as emotions and decision-making styles, as well as decision-specific determinants such as task difficulty and accountability. In addition, the impact of the determinants on the decision-making process is illustrated via multiple application scenarios.
Drawing from our analysis, we develop a dependency framework that systematizes possible interactions in terms of reciprocal interdependencies between these determinants. Our research reveals that, due to the multifaceted interactions with various determinants, factors such as trust in or reliance on LLMs, the user's mental model, and the characteristics of information processing are identified as significant aspects influencing LLM-assisted decision-making processes. Our findings can be seen as crucial for improving decision quality in human-AI collaboration, empowering both users and organizations, and designing more effective LLM interfaces. Additionally, our work provides a foundation for future empirical investigations on the determinants of decision-making assisted by LLMs.

------------

`[2402.17553] OmniACT: A Dataset and Benchmark for Enabling Multimodal Generalist Autonomous Agents for Desktop and Web <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17553>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 14:47:53 GMT
    Raghav Kapoor, Yash Parag Butala, Melisa Russak, Jing Yu Koh, Kiran Kamble, Waseem Alshikh, Ruslan Salakhutdinov

For decades, human-computer interaction has fundamentally been manual. Even today, almost all productive work done on the computer necessitates human input at every step. Autonomous virtual agents represent an exciting step in automating many of these menial tasks. Virtual agents would empower users with limited technical proficiency to harness the full possibilities of computer systems. They could also enable the efficient streamlining of numerous computer tasks, ranging from calendar management to complex travel bookings, with minimal human intervention. In this paper, we introduce OmniACT, the first-of-a-kind dataset and benchmark for assessing an agent's capability to generate executable programs to accomplish computer tasks. Our scope extends beyond traditional web automation, covering a diverse range of desktop applications. The dataset consists of fundamental tasks such as "Play the next song", as well as longer horizon tasks such as "Send an email to John Doe mentioning the time and place to meet". Specifically, given a pair of screen image and a visually-grounded natural language task, the goal is to generate a script capable of fully executing the task. We run several strong baseline language model agents on our benchmark. The strongest baseline, GPT-4, performs the best on our benchmark However, its performance level still reaches only 15% of the human proficiency in generating executable scripts capable of completing the task, demonstrating the challenge of our task for conventional web agents.
Our benchmark provides a platform to measure and evaluate the progress of language model agents in automating computer tasks and motivates future work towards building multimodal models that bridge large language models and the visual grounding of computer screens.

------------

`[2402.17574] Agent-Pro: Learning to Evolve via Policy-Level Reflection and Optimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17574>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 15:09:20 GMT
    Wenqi Zhang, Ke Tang, Hai Wu, Mengna Wang, Yongliang Shen, Guiyang Hou, Zeqi Tan, Peng Li, Yueting Zhuang, Weiming Lu

Large Language Models exhibit robust problem-solving capabilities for diverse tasks. However, most LLM-based agents are designed as specific task solvers with sophisticated prompt engineering, rather than agents capable of learning and evolving through interactions. These task solvers necessitate manually crafted prompts to inform task rules and regulate LLM behaviors, inherently incapacitating to address complex dynamic scenarios e.g., large interactive games. In light of this, we propose Agent-Pro: an LLM-based Agent with Policy-level Reflection and Optimization that can learn a wealth of expertise from interactive experiences and progressively elevate its behavioral policy.
Specifically, it involves a dynamic belief generation and reflection process for policy evolution. Rather than action-level reflection, Agent-Pro iteratively reflects on past trajectories and beliefs, fine-tuning its irrational beliefs for a better policy. Moreover, a depth-first search is employed for policy optimization, ensuring continual enhancement in policy payoffs. Agent-Pro is evaluated across two games: Blackjack and Texas Hold'em, outperforming vanilla LLM and specialized models. Our results show Agent-Pro can learn and evolve in complex and dynamic scenes, which also benefits numerous LLM-based applications.

------------

`[2402.17709] Case-Based or Rule-Based: How Do Transformers Do the Math? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17709>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 17:41:58 GMT
    Yi Hu, Xiaojuan Tang, Haotong Yang, Muhan Zhang

Despite the impressive performance in a variety of complex tasks, modern large language models (LLMs) still have trouble dealing with some math problems that are simple and intuitive for humans, such as addition. While we can easily learn basic rules of addition and apply them to new problems of any length, LLMs struggle to do the same. Instead, they may rely on similar "cases" seen in the training corpus for help. We define these two different reasoning mechanisms as "rule-based reasoning" and "case-based reasoning". Since rule-based reasoning is essential for acquiring the systematic generalization ability, we aim to explore exactly whether transformers use rule-based or case-based reasoning for math problems. Through carefully designed intervention experiments on five math tasks, we confirm that transformers are performing case-based reasoning, no matter whether scratchpad is used, which aligns with the previous observations that transformers use subgraph matching/shortcut learning to reason. To mitigate such problems, we propose a Rule-Following Fine-Tuning (RFFT) technique to teach transformers to perform rule-based reasoning. Specifically, we provide explicit rules in the input and then instruct transformers to recite and follow the rules step by step. Through RFFT, we successfully enable LLMs fine-tuned on 1-5 digit addition to generalize to up to 12-digit addition with over 95% accuracy, which is over 40% higher than scratchpad. The significant improvement demonstrates that teaching LLMs to explicitly use rules helps them learn rule-based reasoning and generalize better in length.

------------

`[2402.17008] Benchmarking LLMs on the Semantic Overlap Summarization Task <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17008>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:33:50 GMT
    John Salvador, Naman Bansal, Mousumi Akter, Souvika Sarkar, Anupam Das, and Shubhra Kanti Karmaker ("Santu")

Semantic Overlap Summarization (SOS) is a constrained multi-document summarization task, where the constraint is to capture the common/overlapping information between two alternative narratives. While recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved superior performance in numerous summarization tasks, a benchmarking study of the SOS task using LLMs is yet to be performed. As LLMs' responses are sensitive to slight variations in prompt design, a major challenge in conducting such a benchmarking study is to systematically explore a variety of prompts before drawing a reliable conclusion. Fortunately, very recently, the TELeR taxonomy has been proposed which can be used to design and explore various prompts for LLMs. Using this TELeR taxonomy and 15 popular LLMs, this paper comprehensively evaluates LLMs on the SOS Task, assessing their ability to summarize overlapping information from multiple alternative narratives. For evaluation, we report well-established metrics like ROUGE, BERTscore, and SEM-F1$ on two different datasets of alternative narratives. We conclude the paper by analyzing the strengths and limitations of various LLMs in terms of their capabilities in capturing overlapping information The code and datasets used to conduct this study are available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/llm_eval-E16D.

------------

`[2402.17010] Can Large Language Models Recall Reference Location Like Humans? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17010>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:35:32 GMT
    Ye Wang, Xinrun Xu, Rui Xie, Wenxin Hu, Wei Ye

When completing knowledge-intensive tasks, humans sometimes need not just an answer but also a corresponding reference passage for auxiliary reading.
Previous methods required obtaining pre-segmented article chunks through additional retrieval models. This paper explores leveraging the parameterized knowledge stored during the pre-training phase of large language models (LLMs) to independently recall reference passage from any starting position. We propose a two-stage framework that simulates the scenario of humans recalling easily forgotten references. Initially, the LLM is prompted to recall document title identifiers to obtain a coarse-grained document set. Then, based on the acquired coarse-grained document set, it recalls fine-grained passage. In the two-stage recall process, we use constrained decoding to ensure that content outside of the stored documents is not generated. To increase speed, we only recall a short prefix in the second stage, then locate its position to retrieve a complete passage. Experiments on KILT knowledge-sensitive tasks have verified that LLMs can independently recall reference passage location in various task forms, and the obtained reference significantly assist downstream tasks.

------------

`[2402.17019] Leveraging Large Language Models for Learning Complex Legal Concepts through Storytelling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17019>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:56:06 GMT
    Hang Jiang, Xiajie Zhang, Robert Mahari, Daniel Kessler, Eric Ma, Tal August, Irene Li, Alex 'Sandy' Pentland, Yoon Kim, Jad Kabbara, Deb Roy

Making legal knowledge accessible to non-experts is crucial for enhancing general legal literacy and encouraging civic participation in democracy.
However, legal documents are often challenging to understand for people without legal backgrounds. In this paper, we present a novel application of large language models (LLMs) in legal education to help non-experts learn intricate legal concepts through storytelling, an effective pedagogical tool in conveying complex and abstract concepts. We also introduce a new dataset LegalStories, which consists of 295 complex legal doctrines, each accompanied by a story and a set of multiple-choice questions generated by LLMs. To construct the dataset, we experiment with various LLMs to generate legal stories explaining these concepts. Furthermore, we use an expert-in-the-loop method to iteratively design multiple-choice questions. Then, we evaluate the effectiveness of storytelling with LLMs through an RCT experiment with legal novices on 10 samples from the dataset. We find that LLM-generated stories enhance comprehension of legal concepts and interest in law among non-native speakers compared to only definitions. Moreover, stories consistently help participants relate legal concepts to their lives. Finally, we find that learning with stories shows a higher retention rate for non-native speakers in the follow-up assessment. Our work has strong implications for using LLMs in promoting teaching and learning in the legal field and beyond.

------------

`[2402.17097] Re-Ex: Revising after Explanation Reduces the Factual Errors in LLM Responses <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17097>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 00:22:18 GMT
    Juyeon Kim, Jeongeun Lee, Yoonho Chang, Chanyeol Choi, Junseong Kim, Jy-yong Sohn

Mitigating hallucination issues is one of the main challenges of LLMs we need to overcome, in order to reliably use them in real-world scenarios. Recently, various methods are proposed to check the factual errors in the LLM-generated texts and revise them accordingly, to reduce the hallucination issue. In this paper, we propose Re-Ex, a method of revising LLM-generated texts, which introduces a novel step dubbed as the factual error explanation step. Re-Ex revises the initial response of LLMs using 3-steps: first, external tools are used to get the evidences on the factual errors in the response; second, LLMs are instructed to explain the problematic parts of the response based on the evidences gathered in the first step; finally, LLMs revise the response using the explanation obtained in the second step. In addition to the explanation step, we propose new prompting techniques to reduce the amount of tokens and wall-clock time required for the response revision process. Compared with existing methods including Factool, CoVE, and RARR, Re-Ex provides better revision performance with less time and fewer tokens in multiple benchmarks.

------------

`[2402.17119] Creating Suspenseful Stories: Iterative Planning with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17119>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 01:25:52 GMT
    Kaige Xie, Mark Riedl

Automated story generation has been one of the long-standing challenges in NLP. Among all dimensions of stories, suspense is very common in human-written stories but relatively under-explored in AI-generated stories. While recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have greatly promoted language generation in general, state-of-the-art LLMs are still unreliable when it comes to suspenseful story generation. We propose a novel iterative-prompting-based planning method that is grounded in two theoretical foundations of story suspense from cognitive psychology and narratology. This theory-grounded method works in a fully zero-shot manner and does not rely on any supervised story corpora. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first attempt at suspenseful story generation with LLMs. Extensive human evaluations of the generated suspenseful stories demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.

------------

`[2402.17124] Fact-and-Reflection (FaR) Improves Confidence Calibration of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17124>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 01:37:23 GMT
    Xinran Zhao, Hongming Zhang, Xiaoman Pan, Wenlin Yao, Dong Yu, Tongshuang Wu, Jianshu Chen

For a LLM to be trustworthy, its confidence level should be well-calibrated with its actual performance. While it is now common sense that LLM performances are greatly impacted by prompts, the confidence calibration in prompting LLMs has yet to be thoroughly explored. In this paper, we explore how different prompting strategies influence LLM confidence calibration and how it could be improved. We conduct extensive experiments on six prompting methods in the question-answering context and we observe that, while these methods help improve the expected LLM calibration, they also trigger LLMs to be over-confident when responding to some instances. Inspired by human cognition, we propose Fact-and-Reflection (FaR) prompting, which improves the LLM calibration in two steps. First, FaR elicits the known "facts" that are relevant to the input prompt from the LLM. And then it asks the model to "reflect" over them to generate the final answer. Experiments show that FaR prompting achieves significantly better calibration; it lowers the Expected Calibration Error by 23.5% on our multi-purpose QA tasks. Notably, FaR prompting even elicits the capability of verbally expressing concerns in less confident scenarios, which helps trigger retrieval augmentation for solving these harder instances.

------------

`[2402.17193] When Scaling Meets LLM Finetuning: The Effect of Data, Model and Finetuning Method <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17193>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 04:18:49 GMT
    Biao Zhang, Zhongtao Liu, Colin Cherry, Orhan Firat

While large language models (LLMs) often adopt finetuning to unlock their capabilities for downstream applications, our understanding on the inductive biases (especially the scaling properties) of different finetuning methods is still limited. To fill this gap, we conduct systematic experiments studying whether and how different scaling factors, including LLM model size, pretraining data size, new finetuning parameter size and finetuning data size, affect the finetuning performance. We consider two types of finetuning -- full-model tuning (FMT) and parameter efficient tuning (PET, including prompt tuning and LoRA), and explore their scaling behaviors in the data-limited regime where the LLM model size substantially outweighs the finetuning data size. Based on two sets of pretrained bilingual LLMs from 1B to 16B and experiments on bilingual machine translation and multilingual summarization benchmarks, we find that 1) LLM finetuning follows a powerbased multiplicative joint scaling law between finetuning data size and each other scaling factor; 2) LLM finetuning benefits more from LLM model scaling than pretraining data scaling, and PET parameter scaling is generally ineffective; and 3) the optimal finetuning method is highly task- and finetuning data-dependent. We hope our findings could shed light on understanding, selecting and developing LLM finetuning methods.

------------

`[2402.17226] Reasoning in Conversation: Solving Subjective Tasks through Dialogue Simulation for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17226>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 05:37:10 GMT
    Xiaolong Wang, Yile Wang, Yuanchi Zhang, Fuwen Luo, Peng Li, Maosong Sun, Yang Liu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable performance in objective tasks such as open-domain question answering and mathematical reasoning, which can often be solved through recalling learned factual knowledge or chain-of-thought style reasoning. However, we find that the performance of LLMs in subjective tasks is still unsatisfactory, such as metaphor recognition, dark humor detection, etc. Compared to objective tasks, subjective tasks focus more on interpretation or emotional response rather than a universally accepted reasoning pathway. Based on the characteristics of the tasks and the strong dialogue-generation capabilities of LLMs, we propose RiC (Reasoning in Conversation), a method that focuses on solving subjective tasks through dialogue simulation. The motivation of RiC is to mine useful contextual information by simulating dialogues instead of supplying chain-of-thought style rationales, thereby offering potential useful knowledge behind dialogues for giving the final answers. We evaluate both API-based and open-source LLMs including GPT-4, ChatGPT, and OpenChat across twelve tasks. Experimental results show that RiC can yield significant improvement compared with various baselines.

------------

`[2402.17231] MATHSENSEI: A Tool-Augmented Large Language Model for Mathematical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17231>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 05:50:35 GMT
    Debrup Das, Debopriyo Banerjee, Somak Aditya, Ashish Kulkarni

Tool-augmented Large Language Models (TALM) are known to enhance the skillset of large language models (LLM), thereby, leading to their improved reasoning abilities across many tasks. While, TALMs have been successfully employed in different question-answering benchmarks, their efficacy on complex mathematical reasoning benchmarks, and the potential complimentary benefits offered by tools for knowledge retrieval and mathematical equation solving, are open research questions. In this work, we present MATHSENSEI, a tool-augmented large language model for mathematical reasoning. Augmented with tools for knowledge retrieval (Bing Web Search), program execution (Python), and symbolic equation solving (Wolfram-Alpha), we study the complimentary benefits of these tools through evaluations on mathematical reasoning datasets. We perform exhaustive ablations on MATH,a popular dataset for evaluating mathematical reasoning on diverse mathematical disciplines. We also conduct experiments involving well-known tool planners to study the impact of tool sequencing on the model performance.
MATHSENSEI achieves 13.5% better accuracy over gpt-3.5-turbo with chain-of-thought on the MATH dataset. We further observe that TALMs are not as effective for simpler math word problems (in GSM-8k), and the benefit increases as the complexity and required knowledge increases (progressively over AQuA, MMLU-Math, and higher level complex questions in MATH). The code and data are available at https://github.com/Debrup-61/MathSensei.

------------

`[2402.17256] Beyond the Known: Investigating LLMs Performance on Out-of-Domain Intent Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17256>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:02:10 GMT
    Pei Wang, Keqing He, Yejie Wang, Xiaoshuai Song, Yutao Mou, Jingang Wang, Yunsen Xian, Xunliang Cai, Weiran Xu

Out-of-domain (OOD) intent detection aims to examine whether the user's query falls outside the predefined domain of the system, which is crucial for the proper functioning of task-oriented dialogue (TOD) systems. Previous methods address it by fine-tuning discriminative models. Recently, some studies have been exploring the application of large language models (LLMs) represented by ChatGPT to various downstream tasks, but it is still unclear for their ability on OOD detection task.This paper conducts a comprehensive evaluation of LLMs under various experimental settings, and then outline the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs. We find that LLMs exhibit strong zero-shot and few-shot capabilities, but is still at a disadvantage compared to models fine-tuned with full resource. More deeply, through a series of additional analysis experiments, we discuss and summarize the challenges faced by LLMs and provide guidance for future work including injecting domain knowledge, strengthening knowledge transfer from IND(In-domain) to OOD, and understanding long instructions.

------------

`[2402.17262] Speak Out of Turn: Safety Vulnerability of Large Language Models in Multi-turn Dialogue <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17262>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:11:59 GMT
    Zhenhong Zhou, Jiuyang Xiang, Haopeng Chen, Quan Liu, Zherui Li, Sen Su

Large Language Models (LLMs) have been demonstrated to generate illegal or unethical responses, particularly when subjected to "jailbreak." Research on jailbreak has highlighted the safety issues of LLMs. However, prior studies have predominantly focused on single-turn dialogue, ignoring the potential complexities and risks presented by multi-turn dialogue, a crucial mode through which humans derive information from LLMs. In this paper, we argue that humans could exploit multi-turn dialogue to induce LLMs into generating harmful information. LLMs may not intend to reject cautionary or borderline unsafe queries, even if each turn is closely served for one malicious purpose in a multi-turn dialogue. Therefore, by decomposing an unsafe query into several sub-queries for multi-turn dialogue, we induced LLMs to answer harmful sub-questions incrementally, culminating in an overall harmful response. Our experiments, conducted across a wide range of LLMs, indicate current inadequacies in the safety mechanisms of LLMs in multi-turn dialogue. Our findings expose vulnerabilities of LLMs in complex scenarios involving multi-turn dialogue, presenting new challenges for the safety of LLMs.

------------

`[2402.17263] Mini-Ensemble Low-Rank Adapters for Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17263>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:14:12 GMT
    Pengjie Ren, Chengshun Shi, Shiguang Wu, Mengqi Zhang, Zhaochun Ren, Maarten de Rijke, Zhumin Chen, Jiahuan Pei

Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) is a popular method for tailoring pre-trained large language models (LLMs), especially as the models' scale and the diversity of tasks increase. Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) is based on the idea that the adaptation process is intrinsically low-dimensional, i.e., significant model changes can be represented with relatively few parameters.
However, decreasing the rank encounters challenges with generalization errors for specific tasks when compared to full-parameter fine-tuning. We present MELoRA, a mini-ensemble low-rank adapters that uses fewer trainable parameters while maintaining a higher rank, thereby offering improved performance potential. The core idea is to freeze original pretrained weights and train a group of mini LoRAs with only a small number of parameters. This can capture a significant degree of diversity among mini LoRAs, thus promoting better generalization ability. We conduct a theoretical analysis and empirical studies on various NLP tasks. Our experimental results show that, compared to LoRA, MELoRA achieves better performance with 8 times fewer trainable parameters on natural language understanding tasks and 36 times fewer trainable parameters on instruction following tasks, which demonstrates the effectiveness of MELoRA.

------------

`[2402.17302] Can LLM Generate Culturally Relevant Commonsense QA Data? Case Study in Indonesian and Sundanese <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17302>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:24:32 GMT
    Rifki Afina Putri, Faiz Ghifari Haznitrama, Dea Adhista, Alice Oh

Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly being used to generate synthetic data for training and evaluating models. However, it is unclear whether they can generate a good quality of question answering (QA) dataset that incorporates knowledge and cultural nuance embedded in a language, especially for low-resource languages. In this study, we investigate the effectiveness of using LLMs in generating culturally relevant commonsense QA datasets for Indonesian and Sundanese languages. To do so, we create datasets for these languages using various methods involving both LLMs and human annotators. Our experiments show that the current best-performing LLM, GPT-4 Turbo, is capable of generating questions with adequate knowledge in Indonesian but not in Sundanese, highlighting the performance discrepancy between medium- and lower-resource languages. We also benchmark various LLMs on our generated datasets and find that they perform better on the LLM-generated datasets compared to those created by humans.

------------

`[2402.17304] Probing Multimodal Large Language Models for Global and Local Semantic Representation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17304>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:27:15 GMT
    Mingxu Tao, Quzhe Huang, Kun Xu, Liwei Chen, Yansong Feng, Dongyan Zhao

The success of large language models has inspired researchers to transfer their exceptional representing ability to other modalities. Several recent works leverage image-caption alignment datasets to train multimodal large language models (MLLMs), which achieve state-of-the-art performance on image-to-text tasks. However, there are very few studies exploring whether MLLMs truly understand the complete image information, i.e., global information, or if they can only capture some local object information. In this study, we find that the intermediate layers of models can encode more global semantic information, whose representation vectors perform better on visual-language entailment tasks, rather than the topmost layers. We further probe models for local semantic representation through object detection tasks.
And we draw a conclusion that the topmost layers may excessively focus on local information, leading to a diminished ability to encode global information.

------------

`[2402.17355] RECOST: External Knowledge Guided Data-efficient Instruction Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17355>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 09:47:36 GMT
    Qi Zhang, Yiming Zhang, Haobo Wang, Junbo Zhao

In the current landscape of large language models (LLMs), the process of instruction tuning serves as an essential step. Considering the high computing power overhead, data-efficient instruction tuning was proposed to reduce the training data size in this process, aiming at selecting high-quality instructional data. Nevertheless, we argue that most current data-efficient instruction-tuning methods are highly dependent on the quality of the original instruction-tuning dataset. When it comes to datasets synthesized by LLMs, a common scenario in this field, dirty samples will even be selected with a higher probability than other samples. To address these challenges, we utilized external knowledge (relevant examples or paragraphs) to evaluate those samples synthesized by LLMs with an in-context-based relative predictive entropy. Based on the new metric, we proposed a framework, dubbed as \textbf{RECOST}, which integrates external-knowledge-base re-ranking and diversity-consistent sampling into a single pipeline. Through extensive experiments on several synthetic datasets (Alpaca and Alpaca-gpt4), we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and achieve even better results with only \textbf{1\%} of the full dataset.

------------

`[2402.17358] SoFA: Shielded On-the-fly Alignment via Priority Rule Following <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17358>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 09:52:27 GMT
    Xinyu Lu, Bowen Yu, Yaojie Lu, Hongyu Lin, Haiyang Yu, Le Sun, Xianpei Han, Yongbin Li

The alignment problem in Large Language Models (LLMs) involves adapting them to the broad spectrum of human values. This requirement challenges existing alignment methods due to diversity of preferences and regulatory standards.
This paper introduces a novel alignment paradigm, priority rule following, which defines rules as the primary control mechanism in each dialog, prioritizing them over user instructions. Our preliminary analysis reveals that even the advanced LLMs, such as GPT-4, exhibit shortcomings in understanding and prioritizing the rules. Therefore, we present PriorityDistill, a semi-automated approach for distilling priority following signals from LLM simulations to ensure robust rule integration and adherence. Our experiments show that this method not only effectively minimizes misalignments utilizing only one general rule but also adapts smoothly to various unseen rules, ensuring they are shielded from hijacking and that the model responds appropriately.

------------

`[2402.17396] Benchmarking GPT-4 on Algorithmic Problems: A Systematic Evaluation of Prompting Strategies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17396>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:44:52 GMT
    Flavio Petruzzellis, Alberto Testolin, Alessandro Sperduti

Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized the field of Natural Language Processing thanks to their ability to reuse knowledge acquired on massive text corpora on a wide variety of downstream tasks, with minimal (if any) tuning steps. At the same time, it has been repeatedly shown that LLMs lack systematic generalization, which allows to extrapolate the learned statistical regularities outside the training distribution. In this work, we offer a systematic benchmarking of GPT-4, one of the most advanced LLMs available, on three algorithmic tasks characterized by the possibility to control the problem difficulty with two parameters. We compare the performance of GPT-4 with that of its predecessor (GPT-3.5) and with a variant of the Transformer-Encoder architecture recently introduced to solve similar tasks, the Neural Data Router. We find that the deployment of advanced prompting techniques allows GPT-4 to reach superior accuracy on all tasks, demonstrating that state-of-the-art LLMs constitute a very strong baseline also in challenging tasks that require systematic generalization.

------------

`[2402.17400] Investigating Continual Pretraining in Large Language Models: Insights and Implications <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17400>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:47:24 GMT
    \c{C}a\u{g}atay Y{\i}ld{\i}z, Nishaanth Kanna Ravichandran, Prishruit Punia, Matthias Bethge, Beyza Ermis

This paper studies the evolving domain of Continual Learning (CL) in large language models (LLMs), with a focus on developing strategies for efficient and sustainable training. Our primary emphasis is on continual domain-adaptive pretraining, a process designed to equip LLMs with the ability to integrate new information from various domains while retaining previously learned knowledge and enhancing cross-domain knowledge transfer without relying on domain-specific identification. Unlike previous studies, which mostly concentrate on a limited selection of tasks or domains and primarily aim to address the issue of forgetting, our research evaluates the adaptability and capabilities of LLMs to changing data landscapes in practical scenarios. To this end, we introduce a new benchmark designed to measure the adaptability of LLMs to these evolving data environments, offering a comprehensive framework for evaluation. We examine the impact of model size on learning efficacy and forgetting, as well as how the progression and similarity of emerging domains affect the knowledge transfer within these models. Our findings uncover several key insights: (i) when the sequence of domains shows semantic similarity, continual pretraining enables LLMs to better specialize in the current domain compared to stand-alone fine-tuning, (ii) training across a diverse range of domains enhances both backward and forward knowledge transfer, and (iii) smaller models are particularly sensitive to continual pretraining, showing the most significant rates of both forgetting and learning. We posit that our research marks a shift towards establishing a more realistic benchmark for investigating CL in LLMs, and has the potential to play a key role in guiding the direction of future research in the field.

------------

`[2402.17411] Consistency Matters: Explore LLMs Consistency From a Black-Box Perspective <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17411>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:02:12 GMT
    Fufangchen Zhao, Guoqiang Jin, Jiaheng Huang, Rui Zhao and Fei Tan

Nowadays both commercial and open-source academic LLM have become the mainstream models of NLP. However, there is still a lack of research on LLM consistency, meaning that throughout the various stages of LLM research and deployment, its internal parameters and capabilities should remain unchanged.
This issue exists in both the industrial and academic sectors. The solution to this problem is often time-consuming and labor-intensive, and there is also an additional cost of secondary deployment, resulting in economic and time losses.
To fill this gap, we build an LLM consistency task dataset and design several baselines. Additionally, we choose models of diverse scales for the main experiments. Specifically, in the LightGBM experiment, we used traditional NLG metrics (i.e., ROUGE, BLEU, METEOR) as the features needed for model training.
The final result exceeds the manual evaluation and GPT3.5 as well as other models in the main experiment, achieving the best performance. In the end, we use the best performing LightGBM model as the base model to build the evaluation tool, which can effectively assist in the deployment of business models. Our code and tool demo are available at https://github.com/heavenhellchen/Consistency.git

------------

`[2402.17433] Enhancing EEG-to-Text Decoding through Transferable Representations from Pre-trained Contrastive EEG-Text Masked Autoencoder <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17433>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:45:21 GMT
    Jiaqi Wang, Zhenxi Song, Zhengyu Ma, Xipeng Qiu, Min Zhang, Zhiguo Zhang

Reconstructing natural language from non-invasive electroencephalography (EEG) holds great promise as a language decoding technology for brain-computer interfaces (BCIs). However, EEG-based language decoding is still in its nascent stages, facing several technical issues such as: 1) Absence of a hybrid strategy that can effectively integrate cross-modality (between EEG and text) self-learning with intra-modality self-reconstruction of EEG features or textual sequences; 2) Under-utilization of large language models (LLMs) to enhance EEG-based language decoding. To address above issues, we propose the Contrastive EEG-Text Masked Autoencoder (CET-MAE), a novel model that orchestrates compound self-supervised learning across and within EEG and text through a dedicated multi-stream encoder. Furthermore, we develop a framework called E2T-PTR (EEG-to-Text decoding using Pretrained Transferable Representations), which leverages pre-trained modules alongside the EEG stream from CET-MAE and further enables an LLM (specifically BART) to decode text from EEG sequences. Comprehensive experiments conducted on the popular text-evoked EEG database, ZuCo, demonstrate the superiority of E2T-PTR, which outperforms the state-of-the-art in ROUGE-1 F1 and BLEU-4 scores by 8.34% and 32.21%, respectively. These results indicate significant advancements in the field and underscores the proposed framework's potential to enable more powerful and widespread BCI applications.

------------

`[2402.17447] Deep Learning Based Named Entity Recognition Models for Recipes <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17447>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:03:56 GMT
    Mansi Goel, Ayush Agarwal, Shubham Agrawal, Janak Kapuriya, Akhil Vamshi Konam, Rishabh Gupta, Shrey Rastogi, Niharika, and Ganesh Bagler

Food touches our lives through various endeavors, including flavor, nourishment, health, and sustainability. Recipes are cultural capsules transmitted across generations via unstructured text. Automated protocols for recognizing named entities, the building blocks of recipe text, are of immense value for various applications ranging from information extraction to novel recipe generation. Named entity recognition is a technique for extracting information from unstructured or semi-structured data with known labels.
Starting with manually-annotated data of 6,611 ingredient phrases, we created an augmented dataset of 26,445 phrases cumulatively. Simultaneously, we systematically cleaned and analyzed ingredient phrases from RecipeDB, the gold-standard recipe data repository, and annotated them using the Stanford NER. Based on the analysis, we sampled a subset of 88,526 phrases using a clustering-based approach while preserving the diversity to create the machine-annotated dataset. A thorough investigation of NER approaches on these three datasets involving statistical, fine-tuning of deep learning-based language models and few-shot prompting on large language models (LLMs) provides deep insights. We conclude that few-shot prompting on LLMs has abysmal performance, whereas the fine-tuned spaCy-transformer emerges as the best model with macro-F1 scores of 95.9%, 96.04%, and 95.71% for the manually-annotated, augmented, and machine-annotated datasets, respectively.

------------

`[2402.17463] Training-Free Long-Context Scaling of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17463>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:39:23 GMT
    Chenxin An, Fei Huang, Jun Zhang, Shansan Gong, Xipeng Qiu, Chang Zhou, Lingpeng Kong

The ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to process and generate coherent text is markedly weakened when the number of input tokens exceeds their pretraining length. Given the expensive overhead of finetuning large-scale models with longer sequences, we propose Dual Chunk Attention (DCA), which enables Llama2 70B to support context windows of more than 100k tokens without continual training. By decomposing the attention computation for long sequences into chunk-based modules, DCA manages to effectively capture the relative positional information of tokens within the same chunk (Intra-Chunk) and across distinct chunks (Inter-Chunk), as well as integrates seamlessly with Flash Attention. In addition to its impressive extrapolation capability, DCA achieves performance on practical long-context tasks that is comparable to or even better than that of finetuned models. When compared with proprietary models, our training-free 70B model attains 94% of the performance of gpt-3.5-16k, indicating it is a viable open-source alternative. All code and data used in this work are released at \url{https://github.com/HKUNLP/ChunkLlama}.

------------

`[2402.17478] Can GPT-4 Identify Propaganda? Annotation and Detection of Propaganda Spans in News Articles <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17478>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:02:19 GMT
    Maram Hasanain, Fatema Ahmed, Firoj Alam

The use of propaganda has spiked on mainstream and social media, aiming to manipulate or mislead users. While efforts to automatically detect propaganda techniques in textual, visual, or multimodal content have increased, most of them primarily focus on English content. The majority of the recent initiatives targeting medium to low-resource languages produced relatively small annotated datasets, with a skewed distribution, posing challenges for the development of sophisticated propaganda detection models. To address this challenge, we carefully develop the largest propaganda dataset to date, ArPro, comprised of 8K paragraphs from newspaper articles, labeled at the text span level following a taxonomy of 23 propagandistic techniques. Furthermore, our work offers the first attempt to understand the performance of large language models (LLMs), using GPT-4, for fine-grained propaganda detection from text. Results showed that GPT-4's performance degrades as the task moves from simply classifying a paragraph as propagandistic or not, to the fine-grained task of detecting propaganda techniques and their manifestation in text. Compared to models fine-tuned on the dataset for propaganda detection at different classification granularities, GPT-4 is still far behind. Finally, we evaluate GPT-4 on a dataset consisting of six other languages for span detection, and results suggest that the model struggles with the task across languages. Our dataset and resources will be released to the community.

------------

`[2402.17493] Prescribing Large Language Models for Perioperative Care: What's The Right Dose for Pre-trained Models? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17493>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:18:00 GMT
    Bing Xue, Charles Alba, Joanna Abraham, Thomas Kannampallil, Chenyang Lu

Postoperative risk predictions can inform effective perioperative care management and planning. We aimed to assess whether clinical large language models (LLMs) can predict postoperative risks using clinical texts with various training strategies. The main cohort involved 84,875 records from Barnes Jewish Hospital (BJH) system between 2018 and 2021. Methods were replicated on Beth Israel Deaconess's MIMIC dataset. Both studies had mean duration of follow-up based on the length of postoperative ICU stay less than 7 days. For the BJH dataset, outcomes included 30-day mortality, pulmonary embolism (PE) and pneumonia. Three domain adaptation and finetuning strategies were implemented for BioGPT, ClinicalBERT and BioClinicalBERT: self-supervised objectives; incorporating labels with semi-supervised fine-tuning; and foundational modelling through multi-task learning. Model performance was compared using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) and the area under the precision recall curve (AUPRC) for classification tasks, and mean squared error (MSE) and R2 for regression tasks. Pre-trained LLMs outperformed traditional word embeddings, with absolute maximal gains of 38.3% for AUROC and 14% for AUPRC. Adapting models further improved performance: (1) self-supervised finetuning by 3.2% for AUROC and 1.5% for AUPRC; (2) semi-supervised finetuning by 1.8% for AUROC and 2% for AUPRC, compared to self-supervised finetuning; (3) foundational modelling by 3.6% for AUROC and 2.6% for AUPRC, compared to self-supervised finetuning. Pre-trained clinical LLMs offer opportunities for postoperative risk predictions in unforeseen data, with peaks in foundational models indicating the potential of task-agnostic learning towards the generalizability of LLMs in perioperative care.

------------

`[2402.17497] REAR: A Relevance-Aware Retrieval-Augmented Framework for Open-Domain Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17497>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:22:51 GMT
    Yuhao Wang, Ruiyang Ren, Junyi Li, Wayne Xin Zhao, Jing Liu, Ji-Rong Wen

Considering the limited internal parametric knowledge, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been widely used to extend the knowledge scope of large language models (LLMs). Despite the extensive efforts on RAG research, in existing methods, LLMs cannot precisely assess the relevance of retrieved documents, thus likely leading to misleading or even incorrect utilization of external knowledge (i.e., retrieved documents). To address this issue, in this paper, we propose REAR, a RElevance-Aware Retrieval-augmented approach for open-domain question answering (QA). As the key motivation, we aim to enhance the self-awareness of source relevance for LLMs, so as to adaptively utilize external knowledge in RAG systems. Specially, we develop a new architecture for LLM based RAG system, by incorporating a specially designed rank head that precisely assesses the relevance of retrieved documents. Furthermore, we propose an improved training method based on bi-granularity relevance fusion and noise-resistant training. By combining the improvements in both architecture and training, our proposed REAR can better utilize external knowledge by effectively perceiving the relevance of retrieved documents.
Experiments on four open-domain QA tasks show that REAR significantly outperforms previous a number of competitive RAG approaches. Our code and data can be accessed at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/REAR.

------------

`[2402.17564] Unleashing the Potential of Large Language Models as Prompt Optimizers: An Analogical Analysis with Gradient-based Model Optimizers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17564>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 15:05:32 GMT
    Xinyu Tang, Xiaolei Wang, Wayne Xin Zhao, Siyuan Lu, Yaliang Li and Ji-Rong Wen

Automatic prompt optimization is an important approach to improving the performance of large language models (LLMs). Recent research demonstrates the potential of using LLMs as prompt optimizers, which can generate improved task prompts via iterative refinement. In this paper, we propose a novel perspective to investigate the design of LLM-based prompt optimizers, by drawing an analogy with gradient-based model optimizers. To connect these two approaches, we identify two pivotal factors in model parameter learning: update direction and update method. Focused on the two aspects, we borrow the theoretical framework and learning methods from gradient-based optimization to design improved strategies for LLM-based prompt optimizers. By systematically analyzing a rich set of improvement strategies, we further develop a capable Gradient-inspired LLM-based Prompt Optimizer called GPO. At each step, it first retrieves relevant prompts from the optimization trajectory as the update direction.
Then, it utilizes the generation-based refinement strategy to perform the update, while controlling the edit distance through a cosine-based decay strategy. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of GPO. In particular, GPO brings an additional improvement of up to 56.8% on Big-Bench Hard and 55.3% on MMLU compared to baseline methods.

------------

`[2402.17644] Are LLMs Capable of Data-based Statistical and Causal Reasoning? Benchmarking Advanced Quantitative Reasoning with Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17644>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 16:15:03 GMT
    Xiao Liu, Zirui Wu, Xueqing Wu, Pan Lu, Kai-Wei Chang, Yansong Feng

Quantitative reasoning is a critical skill to analyze data, yet the assessment of such ability remains limited. To address this gap, we introduce the Quantitative Reasoning with Data (QRData) benchmark, aiming to evaluate Large Language Models' capability in statistical and causal reasoning with real-world data. The benchmark comprises a carefully constructed dataset of 411 questions accompanied by data sheets from textbooks, online learning materials, and academic papers. To compare models' quantitative reasoning abilities on data and text, we enrich the benchmark with an auxiliary set of 290 text-only questions, namely QRText. We evaluate natural language reasoning, program-based reasoning, and agent reasoning methods including Chain-of-Thought, Program-of-Thoughts, ReAct, and code interpreter assistants on diverse models.
The strongest model GPT-4 achieves an accuracy of 58%, which has a large room for improvement. Among open-source models, Deepseek-coder-instruct, a code LLM pretrained on 2T tokens, gets the highest accuracy of 37%. Analysis reveals that models encounter difficulties in data analysis and causal reasoning, and struggle in using causal knowledge and provided data simultaneously. Code and data are in https://github.com/xxxiaol/QRData.

------------

`[2402.17649] Beyond prompt brittleness: Evaluating the reliability and consistency of political worldviews in LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17649>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 16:19:37 GMT
    Tanise Ceron, Neele Falk, Ana Bari\'c, Dmitry Nikolaev, Sebastian Pad\'o

Due to the widespread use of large language models (LLMs) in ubiquitous systems, we need to understand whether they embed a specific worldview and what these views reflect. Recent studies report that, prompted with political questionnaires, LLMs show left-liberal leanings. However, it is as yet unclear whether these leanings are reliable (robust to prompt variations) and whether the leaning is consistent across policies and political leaning. We propose a series of tests which assess the reliability and consistency of LLMs' stances on political statements based on a dataset of voting-advice questionnaires collected from seven EU countries and annotated for policy domains. We study LLMs ranging in size from 7B to 70B parameters and find that their reliability increases with parameter count. Larger models show overall stronger alignment with left-leaning parties but differ among policy programs: They evince a (left-wing) positive stance towards environment protection, social welfare but also (right-wing) law and order, with no consistent preferences in foreign policy, migration, and economy.

------------

`[2402.17717] AmbigNLG: Addressing Task Ambiguity in Instruction for NLG <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17717>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 17:52:33 GMT
    Ayana Niwa, Hayate Iso

In this study, we introduce AmbigNLG, a new task designed to tackle the challenge of task ambiguity in instructions for Natural Language Generation (NLG) tasks. Despite the impressive capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in understanding and executing a wide range of tasks through natural language interaction, their performance is significantly hindered by the ambiguity present in real-world instructions. To address this, AmbigNLG seeks to identify and mitigate such ambiguities, aiming to refine instructions to match user expectations better. We introduce a dataset, AmbigSNI-NLG, consisting of 2,500 instances, and develop an ambiguity taxonomy for categorizing and annotating instruction ambiguities. Our approach demonstrates substantial improvements in text generation quality, highlighting the critical role of clear and specific instructions in enhancing LLM performance in NLG tasks.

------------

`[2402.17733] Tower: An Open Multilingual Large Language Model for Translation-Related Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17733>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 18:09:36 GMT
    Duarte M. Alves, Jos\'e Pombal, Nuno M. Guerreiro, Pedro H. Martins, Jo\~ao Alves, Amin Farajian, Ben Peters, Ricardo Rei, Patrick Fernandes, Sweta Agrawal, Pierre Colombo, Jos\'e G.C. de Souza, Andr\'e F.T. Martins

While general-purpose large language models (LLMs) demonstrate proficiency on multiple tasks within the domain of translation, approaches based on open LLMs are competitive only when specializing on a single task. In this paper, we propose a recipe for tailoring LLMs to multiple tasks present in translation workflows. We perform continued pretraining on a multilingual mixture of monolingual and parallel data, creating TowerBase, followed by finetuning on instructions relevant for translation processes, creating TowerInstruct. Our final model surpasses open alternatives on several tasks relevant to translation workflows and is competitive with general-purpose closed LLMs. To facilitate future research, we release the Tower models, our specialization dataset, an evaluation framework for LLMs focusing on the translation ecosystem, and a collection of model generations, including ours, on our benchmark.

------------

`[2402.17753] Evaluating Very Long-Term Conversational Memory of LLM Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17753>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 18:42:31 GMT
    Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, Yuwei Fang

Existing works on long-term open-domain dialogues focus on evaluating model responses within contexts spanning no more than five chat sessions. Despite advancements in long-context large language models (LLMs) and retrieval augmented generation (RAG) techniques, their efficacy in very long-term dialogues remains unexplored. To address this research gap, we introduce a machine-human pipeline to generate high-quality, very long-term dialogues by leveraging LLM-based agent architectures and grounding their dialogues on personas and temporal event graphs. Moreover, we equip each agent with the capability of sharing and reacting to images. The generated conversations are verified and edited by human annotators for long-range consistency and grounding to the event graphs. Using this pipeline, we collect LoCoMo, a dataset of very long-term conversations, each encompassing 300 turns and 9K tokens on avg., over up to 35 sessions. Based on LoCoMo, we present a comprehensive evaluation benchmark to measure long-term memory in models, encompassing question answering, event summarization, and multi-modal dialogue generation tasks. Our experimental results indicate that LLMs exhibit challenges in understanding lengthy conversations and comprehending long-range temporal and causal dynamics within dialogues. Employing strategies like long-context LLMs or RAG can offer improvements but these models still substantially lag behind human performance.

------------

`[2402.17762] Massive Activations in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17762>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 18:55:17 GMT
    Mingjie Sun, Xinlei Chen, J. Zico Kolter, Zhuang Liu

We observe an empirical phenomenon in Large Language Models (LLMs) -- very few activations exhibit significantly larger values than others (e.g., 100,000 times larger). We call them massive activations. First, we demonstrate the widespread existence of massive activations across various LLMs and characterize their locations. Second, we find their values largely stay constant regardless of the input, and they function as indispensable bias terms in LLMs. Third, these massive activations lead to the concentration of attention probabilities to their corresponding tokens, and further, implicit bias terms in the self-attention output. Last, we also study massive activations in Vision Transformers.

------------

`[2402.17764] The Era of 1-bit LLMs: All Large Language Models are in 1.58 Bits <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17764>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 18:56:19 GMT
    Shuming Ma, Hongyu Wang, Lingxiao Ma, Lei Wang, Wenhui Wang, Shaohan Huang, Li Dong, Ruiping Wang, Jilong Xue, Furu Wei

Recent research, such as BitNet, is paving the way for a new era of 1-bit Large Language Models (LLMs). In this work, we introduce a 1-bit LLM variant, namely BitNet b1.58, in which every single parameter (or weight) of the LLM is ternary {-1, 0, 1}. It matches the full-precision (i.e., FP16 or BF16) Transformer LLM with the same model size and training tokens in terms of both perplexity and end-task performance, while being significantly more cost-effective in terms of latency, memory, throughput, and energy consumption.
More profoundly, the 1.58-bit LLM defines a new scaling law and recipe for training new generations of LLMs that are both high-performance and cost-effective. Furthermore, it enables a new computation paradigm and opens the door for designing specific hardware optimized for 1-bit LLMs.

------------

`[2402.16880] BESA: Pruning Large Language Models with Blockwise Parameter-Efficient Sparsity Allocation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16880>`__

::

    Sun, 18 Feb 2024 12:44:15 GMT
    Peng Xu, Wenqi Shao, Mengzhao Chen, Shitao Tang, Kaipeng Zhang, Peng Gao, Fengwei An, Yu Qiao, Ping Luo

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated outstanding performance in various tasks, such as text summarization, text question-answering, and etc.
While their performance is impressive, the computational footprint due to their vast number of parameters can be prohibitive. Existing solutions such as SparseGPT and Wanda attempt to alleviate this issue through weight pruning.
However, their layer-wise approach results in significant perturbation to the model's output and requires meticulous hyperparameter tuning, such as the pruning rate, which can adversely affect overall model performance. To address this, this paper introduces a novel LLM pruning technique dubbed blockwise parameter-efficient sparsity allocation (BESA) by applying a blockwise reconstruction loss. In contrast to the typical layer-wise pruning techniques, BESA is characterized by two distinctive attributes: i) it targets the overall pruning error with respect to individual transformer blocks, and ii) it allocates layer-specific sparsity in a differentiable manner, both of which ensure reduced performance degradation after pruning. Our experiments show that BESA achieves state-of-the-art performance, efficiently pruning LLMs like LLaMA1, and LLaMA2 with 7B to 70B parameters on a single A100 GPU in just five hours. Code is available at \href{https://github.com/OpenGVLab/LLMPrune-BESA}{here}.

------------

`[2402.16899] A prior Estimates for Deep Residual Network in Continuous-time Reinforcement Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16899>`__

::

    Sat, 24 Feb 2024 06:31:43 GMT
    Shuyu Yin, Qixuan Zhou, Fei Wen, Tao Luo

Deep reinforcement learning excels in numerous large-scale practical applications. However, existing performance analyses ignores the unique characteristics of continuous-time control problems, is unable to directly estimate the generalization error of the Bellman optimal loss and require a boundedness assumption. Our work focuses on continuous-time control problems and proposes a method that is applicable to all such problems where the transition function satisfies semi-group and Lipschitz properties. Under this method, we can directly analyze the \emph{a priori} generalization error of the Bellman optimal loss. The core of this method lies in two transformations of the loss function. To complete the transformation, we propose a decomposition method for the maximum operator. Additionally, this analysis method does not require a boundedness assumption. Finally, we obtain an \emph{a priori} generalization error without the curse of dimensionality.

------------

`[2402.16902] PRoLoRA: Partial Rotation Empowers More Parameter-Efficient LoRA <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16902>`__

::

    Sat, 24 Feb 2024 13:39:05 GMT
    Sheng Wang, Boyang Xue, Jiacheng Ye, Jiyue Jiang, Liheng Chen, Lingpeng Kong, Chuan Wu

With the rapid scaling of large language models (LLMs), serving numerous LoRAs concurrently has become increasingly impractical, leading to unaffordable costs and necessitating more parameter-efficient finetuning methods. In this work, we introduce Partially Rotation-enhanced Low-Rank Adaptation (PRoLoRA), an intra-layer sharing mechanism comprising four essential components: broadcast reduction, rotation enhancement, partially-sharing refinement, and rectified initialization strategy. As a superset of LoRA, PRoLoRA pertains its advantages, and effectively circumvent the drawbacks of peer parameter-sharing methods with superior model capacity, practical feasibility, and broad applicability. Empirical experiments demonstrate the remarkably higher parameter efficiency of PRoLoRA in both specific parameter budget and performance target scenarios, and its scalability to larger LLMs. Notably, with one time less trainable parameters, PRoLoRA still outperforms LoRA on multiple instruction tuning datasets. Subsequently, an ablation study is conducted to validate the necessity of individual components and highlight the superiority of PRoLoRA over three potential variants. Hopefully, the conspicuously higher parameter efficiency can establish PRoLoRA as a resource-friendly alternative to LoRA.

------------

`[2402.16919] Personalized Federated Instruction Tuning via Neural Architecture Search <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16919>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 06:29:05 GMT
    Pengyu Zhang, Yingbo Zhou, Ming Hu, Junxian Feng, Jiawen Weng, and Mingsong Chen

Federated Instruction Tuning (FIT) has shown the ability to achieve collaborative model instruction tuning among massive data owners without sharing private data. However, it still faces two key challenges, i.e., data and resource heterogeneity. Due to the varying data distribution and preferences among data owners, FIT cannot adapt to the personalized data of individual owners. Moreover, clients with superior computational abilities are constrained since they need to maintain the same fine-tuning architecture as the weaker clients. To address these issues, we propose a novel Personalized Federated Instruction Tuning (PerFIT) framework based on architecture search.
Specifically, PerFIT allows each client to search for a personalized architecture by expanding the trainable parameter space of the global model followed by pruning the parameters to the original state. This procedure allows personalized instruction fine-tuning within expanded parameter spaces, concurrently preserving the same number of trainable parameters. Furthermore, to release the abilities of heterogeneous computational resources and enhance the performance of personalization on local data, we exploit personalized parameter-wise aggregation. The evaluation with multiple LLMs non-IID scenarios demonstrates that compared to the state-of-the-art FIT methods, our approach can achieve up to a 23% decrease in perplexity.

------------

`[2402.17110] Sinkhorn Distance Minimization for Knowledge Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17110>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 01:13:58 GMT
    Xiao Cui, Yulei Qin, Yuting Gao, Enwei Zhang, Zihan Xu, Tong Wu, Ke Li, Xing Sun, Wengang Zhou and Houqiang Li

Knowledge distillation (KD) has been widely adopted to compress large language models (LLMs). Existing KD methods investigate various divergence measures including the Kullback-Leibler (KL), reverse Kullback-Leibler (RKL), and Jensen-Shannon (JS) divergences. However, due to limitations inherent in their assumptions and definitions, these measures fail to deliver effective supervision when few distribution overlap exists between the teacher and the student. In this paper, we show that the aforementioned KL, RKL, and JS divergences respectively suffer from issues of mode-averaging, mode-collapsing, and mode-underestimation, which deteriorates logits-based KD for diverse NLP tasks. We propose the Sinkhorn Knowledge Distillation (SinKD) that exploits the Sinkhorn distance to ensure a nuanced and precise assessment of the disparity between teacher and student distributions. Besides, profit by properties of the Sinkhorn metric, we can get rid of sample-wise KD that restricts the perception of divergence in each teacher-student sample pair. Instead, we propose a batch-wise reformulation to capture geometric intricacies of distributions across samples in the high-dimensional space. Comprehensive evaluation on GLUE and SuperGLUE, in terms of comparability, validity, and generalizability, highlights our superiority over state-of-the-art methods on all kinds of LLMs with encoder-only, encoder-decoder, and decoder-only architectures.

------------

`[2402.17453] DS-Agent: Automated Data Science by Empowering Large Language Models with Case-Based Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17453>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:26:07 GMT
    Siyuan Guo, Cheng Deng, Ying Wen, Hechang Chen, Yi Chang, Jun Wang

In this work, we investigate the potential of large language models (LLMs) based agents to automate data science tasks, with the goal of comprehending task requirements, then building and training the best-fit machine learning models. Despite their widespread success, existing LLM agents are hindered by generating unreasonable experiment plans within this scenario. To this end, we present DS-Agent, a novel automatic framework that harnesses LLM agent and case-based reasoning (CBR). In the development stage, DS-Agent follows the CBR framework to structure an automatic iteration pipeline, which can flexibly capitalize on the expert knowledge from Kaggle, and facilitate consistent performance improvement through the feedback mechanism. Moreover, DS-Agent implements a low-resource deployment stage with a simplified CBR paradigm to adapt past successful solutions from the development stage for direct code generation, significantly reducing the demand on foundational capabilities of LLMs. Empirically, DS-Agent with GPT-4 achieves an unprecedented 100% success rate in the development stage, while attaining 36% improvement on average one pass rate across alternative LLMs in the deployment stage. In both stages, DS-Agent achieves the best rank in performance, costing \$1.60 and \$0.13 per run with GPT-4, respectively.

------------

`[2402.17501] Intensive Care as One Big Sequence Modeling Problem <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17501>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:36:55 GMT
    Vadim Liventsev, Tobias Fritz

Reinforcement Learning in Healthcare is typically concerned with narrow self-contained tasks such as sepsis prediction or anesthesia control. However, previous research has demonstrated the potential of generalist models (the prime example being Large Language Models) to outperform task-specific approaches due to their capability for implicit transfer learning. To enable training of foundation models for Healthcare as well as leverage the capabilities of state of the art Transformer architectures, we propose the paradigm of Healthcare as Sequence Modeling, in which interaction between the patient and the healthcare provider is represented as an event stream and tasks like diagnosis and treatment selection are modeled as prediction of future events in the stream. To explore this paradigm experimentally we develop MIMIC-SEQ, a sequence modeling benchmark derived by translating heterogenous clinical records from MIMIC-IV dataset into a uniform event stream format, train a baseline model and explore its capabilities.

------------

`[2402.17641] Variational Learning is Effective for Large Deep Networks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17641>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 16:11:05 GMT
    Yuesong Shen, Nico Daheim, Bai Cong, Peter Nickl, Gian Maria Marconi, Clement Bazan, Rio Yokota, Iryna Gurevych, Daniel Cremers, Mohammad Emtiyaz Khan, Thomas M\"ollenhoff

We give extensive empirical evidence against the common belief that variational learning is ineffective for large neural networks. We show that an optimizer called Improved Variational Online Newton (IVON) consistently matches or outperforms Adam for training large networks such as GPT-2 and ResNets from scratch. IVON's computational costs are nearly identical to Adam but its predictive uncertainty is better. We show several new use cases of IVON where we improve fine-tuning and model merging in Large Language Models, accurately predict generalization error, and faithfully estimate sensitivity to data. We find overwhelming evidence in support of effectiveness of variational learning.

------------

`[2402.16877] Large Language Model Augmented Exercise Retrieval for Personalized Language Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16877>`__

::

    Thu, 8 Feb 2024 20:35:31 GMT
    Austin Xu, Will Monroe, Klinton Bicknell

We study the problem of zero-shot exercise retrieval in the context of online language learning, to give learners the ability to explicitly request personalized exercises via natural language. Using real-world data collected from language learners, we observe that vector similarity approaches poorly capture the relationship between exercise content and the language that learners use to express what they want to learn. This semantic gap between queries and content dramatically reduces the effectiveness of general-purpose retrieval models pretrained on large scale information retrieval datasets like MS MARCO. We leverage the generative capabilities of large language models to bridge the gap by synthesizing hypothetical exercises based on the learner's input, which are then used to search for relevant exercises. Our approach, which we call mHyER, overcomes three challenges: (1) lack of relevance labels for training, (2) unrestricted learner input content, and (3) low semantic similarity between input and retrieval candidates. mHyER outperforms several strong baselines on two novel benchmarks created from crowdsourced data and publicly available data.

------------

`[2402.16886] Using text embedding models and vector databases as text classifiers with the example of medical data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16886>`__

::

    Wed, 7 Feb 2024 22:15:15 GMT
    Rishabh Goel

The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) is promising and has found application in numerous fields, but as it often is with the medical field, the bar is typically quite high [5]. In tandem with LLMs, vector embedding models and vector databases provide a robust way of expressing numerous modes of data that are easily digestible by typical machine learning models. Along with the ease of adding information, knowledge, and data to these vector databases, they provide a compelling reason to apply them in numerous fields where the task of retrieving information is typically done by humans. Researchers at Google have developed a clear alternative model, Med-PaLM [6] specifically designed to match a clinician's level of accuracy when it comes to medical knowledge. When training classifiers, and developing models, it is imperative to maintain factuality and reduce bias [4]. Here, we explore the use of vector databases and embedding models as a means of encoding, and classifying text with the example and application in the field of medicine. We show the robustness of these tools depends heavily on the sparsity of the data presented, and even with low amounts of data in the vector database itself, the vector database does a good job at classifying data [9]. Using various LLMs to generate the medical data, we also understand the limitations of the medical knowledge of these models and encourage further expert medical review of our testing data.
By using vector databases to classify a clinician's notes on a patient presented with a certain ailment, we understand the limitations of such methods, but also the promise of their prospective use and with continued testing and experimentation, hope to explore a unique use case of vector databases and embedding models.

------------

`[2402.16893] The Good and The Bad: Exploring Privacy Issues in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16893>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 18:35:15 GMT
    Shenglai Zeng, Jiankun Zhang, Pengfei He, Yue Xing, Yiding Liu, Han Xu, Jie Ren, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Yi Chang, Jiliang Tang

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is a powerful technique to facilitate language model with proprietary and private data, where data privacy is a pivotal concern. Whereas extensive research has demonstrated the privacy risks of large language models (LLMs), the RAG technique could potentially reshape the inherent behaviors of LLM generation, posing new privacy issues that are currently under-explored. In this work, we conduct extensive empirical studies with novel attack methods, which demonstrate the vulnerability of RAG systems on leaking the private retrieval database. Despite the new risk brought by RAG on the retrieval data, we further reveal that RAG can mitigate the leakage of the LLMs' training data. Overall, we provide new insights in this paper for privacy protection of retrieval-augmented LLMs, which benefit both LLMs and RAG systems builders. Our code is available at https://github.com/phycholosogy/RAG-privacy.

------------

`[2402.16906] LDB: A Large Language Model Debugger via Verifying Runtime Execution Step-by-step <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16906>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 00:56:27 GMT
    Li Zhong, Zilong Wang, Jingbo Shang

Large language models (LLMs) are leading significant progress in code generation. Beyond one-pass code generation, recent works further integrate unit tests and program verifiers into LLMs to iteratively refine the generated programs. However, these works consider the generated programs as an indivisible entity, which falls short for LLMs in debugging the programs, especially when the programs contain complex logic flows and data operations.
In contrast, when human developers debug programs, they typically set breakpoints and selectively examine runtime execution information. The execution flow and the intermediate variables play a crucial role in the debugging process, yet they are underutilized in the existing literature on code generation. In this study, we introduce Large Language Model Debugger (LDB), a novel debugging framework that enables LLMs to refine their generated programs with the runtime execution information. Specifically, LDB segments the programs into basic blocks and tracks the values of intermediate variables after each block throughout the runtime execution. This allows LLMs to concentrate on simpler code units within the overall execution flow, verify their correctness against the task description block by block, and efficiently pinpoint any potential errors. Experiments demonstrate that LDB consistently enhances the baseline performance by up to 9.8% across the HumanEval, MBPP, and TransCoder benchmarks, archiving new state-of-the-art performance in code debugging for various LLM selections.

------------

`[2402.16910] NeSy is alive and well: A LLM-driven symbolic approach for better code comment data generation and classification <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16910>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 13:20:13 GMT
    Hanna Abi Akl

We present a neuro-symbolic (NeSy) workflow combining a symbolic-based learning technique with a large language model (LLM) agent to generate synthetic data for code comment classification in the C programming language.
We also show how generating controlled synthetic data using this workflow fixes some of the notable weaknesses of LLM-based generation and increases the performance of classical machine learning models on the code comment classification task. Our best model, a Neural Network, achieves a Macro-F1 score of 91.412% with an increase of 1.033% after data augmentation.

------------

`[2402.16914] DrAttack: Prompt Decomposition and Reconstruction Makes Powerful LLM Jailbreakers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16914>`__

::

    Sun, 25 Feb 2024 17:43:29 GMT
    Xirui Li, Ruochen Wang, Minhao Cheng, Tianyi Zhou, Cho-Jui Hsieh

The safety alignment of Large Language Models (LLMs) is vulnerable to both manual and automated jailbreak attacks, which adversarially trigger LLMs to output harmful content. However, current methods for jailbreaking LLMs, which nest entire harmful prompts, are not effective at concealing malicious intent and can be easily identified and rejected by well-aligned LLMs. This paper discovers that decomposing a malicious prompt into separated sub-prompts can effectively obscure its underlying malicious intent by presenting it in a fragmented, less detectable form, thereby addressing these limitations. We introduce an automatic prompt \textbf{D}ecomposition and \textbf{R}econstruction framework for jailbreak \textbf{Attack} (DrAttack).
DrAttack includes three key components: (a) `Decomposition' of the original prompt into sub-prompts, (b) `Reconstruction' of these sub-prompts implicitly by in-context learning with semantically similar but harmless reassembling demo, and (c) a `Synonym Search' of sub-prompts, aiming to find sub-prompts' synonyms that maintain the original intent while jailbreaking LLMs. An extensive empirical study across multiple open-source and closed-source LLMs demonstrates that, with a significantly reduced number of queries, DrAttack obtains a substantial gain of success rate over prior SOTA prompt-only attackers. Notably, the success rate of 78.0\% on GPT-4 with merely 15 queries surpassed previous art by 33.1\%.

------------

`[2402.16929] LangGPT: Rethinking Structured Reusable Prompt Design Framework for LLMs from the Programming Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16929>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 15:05:16 GMT
    Ming Wang, Yuanzhong Liu, Xiaoming Zhang, Songlian Li, Yijie Huang, Chi Zhang, Daling Wang, Shi Feng, Jigang Li

LLMs have demonstrated commendable performance across diverse domains.
Nevertheless, formulating high-quality prompts to effectively instruct LLMs poses a challenge for non-AI experts. Existing research in prompt engineering suggests somewhat fragmented optimization principles and designs empirically dependent prompt optimizers. Unfortunately, these endeavors lack a structured design template, incurring high learning costs and resulting in low reusability. Inspired by structured reusable programming languages, we propose LangGPT, a dual-layer prompt design framework as the programming language for LLMs. LangGPT has an easy-to-learn normative structure and provides an extended structure for migration and reuse. Experiments illustrate that LangGPT significantly enhances the capacity of LLMs to produce responses of superior quality compared to baselines. Moreover, LangGPT has proven effective in guiding LLMs to generate high-quality prompts. We have built a community on LangGPT to facilitate the tuition and sharing of prompt design. We also analyzed the ease of use and reusability of LangGPT through a community user survey.

------------

`[2402.16965] WIPI: A New Web Threat for LLM-Driven Web Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16965>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 19:01:54 GMT
    Fangzhou Wu, Shutong Wu, Yulong Cao, Chaowei Xiao

With the fast development of large language models (LLMs), LLM-driven Web Agents (Web Agents for short) have obtained tons of attention due to their superior capability where LLMs serve as the core part of making decisions like the human brain equipped with multiple web tools to actively interact with external deployed websites. As uncountable Web Agents have been released and such LLM systems are experiencing rapid development and drawing closer to widespread deployment in our daily lives, an essential and pressing question arises: "Are these Web Agents secure?". In this paper, we introduce a novel threat, WIPI, that indirectly controls Web Agent to execute malicious instructions embedded in publicly accessible webpages. To launch a successful WIPI works in a black-box environment. This methodology focuses on the form and content of indirect instructions within external webpages, enhancing the efficiency and stealthiness of the attack. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed methodology, we conducted extensive experiments using 7 plugin-based ChatGPT Web Agents, 8 Web GPTs, and 3 different open-source Web Agents. The results reveal that our methodology achieves an average attack success rate (ASR) exceeding 90% even in pure black-box scenarios. Moreover, through an ablation study examining various user prefix instructions, we demonstrated that the WIPI exhibits strong robustness, maintaining high performance across diverse prefix instructions.

------------

`[2402.16968] A Survey of Large Language Models in Cybersecurity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16968>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 19:06:02 GMT
    Gabriel de Jesus Coelho da Silva, Carlos Becker Westphall

Large Language Models (LLMs) have quickly risen to prominence due to their ability to perform at or close to the state-of-the-art in a variety of fields while handling natural language. An important field of research is the application of such models at the cybersecurity context. This survey aims to identify where in the field of cybersecurity LLMs have already been applied, the ways in which they are being used and their limitations in the field.
Finally, suggestions are made on how to improve such limitations and what can be expected from these systems once these limitations are overcome.

------------

`[2402.17012] Pandora's White-Box: Increased Training Data Leakage in Open LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17012>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:41:50 GMT
    Jeffrey G. Wang, Jason Wang, Marvin Li, Seth Neel

In this paper we undertake a systematic study of privacy attacks against open source Large Language Models (LLMs), where an adversary has access to either the model weights, gradients, or losses, and tries to exploit them to learn something about the underlying training data. Our headline results are the first membership inference attacks (MIAs) against pre-trained LLMs that are able to simultaneously achieve high TPRs and low FPRs, and a pipeline showing that over $50\%$ (!) of the fine-tuning dataset can be extracted from a fine-tuned LLM in natural settings. We consider varying degrees of access to the underlying model, customization of the language model, and resources available to the attacker. In the pre-trained setting, we propose three new white-box MIAs: an attack based on the gradient norm, a supervised neural network classifier, and a single step loss ratio attack. All outperform existing black-box baselines, and our supervised attack closes the gap between MIA attack success against LLMs and other types of models. In fine-tuning, we find that given access to the loss of the fine-tuned and base models, a fine-tuned loss ratio attack FLoRA is able to achieve near perfect MIA peformance. We then leverage these MIAs to extract fine-tuning data from fine-tuned language models. We find that the pipeline of generating from fine-tuned models prompted with a small snippet of the prefix of each training example, followed by using FLoRa to select the most likely training sample, succeeds the majority of the fine-tuning dataset after only $3$ epochs of fine-tuning. Taken together, these findings show that highly effective MIAs are available in almost all LLM training settings, and highlight that great care must be taken before LLMs are fine-tuned on highly sensitive data and then deployed.

------------

`[2402.17407] A Neural Rewriting System to Solve Algorithmic Problems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17407>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:57:07 GMT
    Flavio Petruzzellis, Alberto Testolin, Alessandro Sperduti

Modern neural network architectures still struggle to learn algorithmic procedures that require to systematically apply compositional rules to solve out-of-distribution problem instances. In this work, we propose an original approach to learn algorithmic tasks inspired by rewriting systems, a classic framework in symbolic artificial intelligence. We show that a rewriting system can be implemented as a neural architecture composed by specialized modules: the Selector identifies the target sub-expression to process, the Solver simplifies the sub-expression by computing the corresponding result, and the Combiner produces a new version of the original expression by replacing the sub-expression with the solution provided. We evaluate our model on three types of algorithmic tasks that require simplifying symbolic formulas involving lists, arithmetic, and algebraic expressions. We test the extrapolation capabilities of the proposed architecture using formulas involving a higher number of operands and nesting levels than those seen during training, and we benchmark its performance against the Neural Data Router, a recent model specialized for systematic generalization, and a state-of-the-art large language model (GPT-4) probed with advanced prompting strategies.

------------

`[2402.17442] Ansible Lightspeed: A Code Generation Service for IT Automation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17442>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:57:28 GMT
    Priyam Sahoo, Saurabh Pujar, Ganesh Nalawade, Richard Gebhardt, Louis Mandel, Luca Buratti

The availability of Large Language Models (LLMs) which can generate code, has made it possible to create tools that improve developer productivity.
Integrated development environments or IDEs which developers use to write software are often used as an interface to interact with LLMs. Although many such tools have been released, almost all of them focus on general-purpose programming languages. Domain-specific languages, such as those crucial for IT automation, have not received much attention. Ansible is one such YAML-based IT automation-specific language. Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM Watson Code Assistant, further referred to as Ansible Lightspeed, is an LLM-based service designed explicitly for natural language to Ansible code generation.
In this paper, we describe the design and implementation of the Ansible Lightspeed service and analyze feedback from thousands of real users. We examine diverse performance indicators, classified according to both immediate and extended utilization patterns along with user sentiments. The analysis shows that the user acceptance rate of Ansible Lightspeed suggestions is higher than comparable tools that are more general and not specific to a programming language. This remains true even after we use much more stringent criteria for what is considered an accepted model suggestion, discarding suggestions which were heavily edited after being accepted. The relatively high acceptance rate results in higher-than-expected user retention and generally positive user feedback. This paper provides insights on how a comparatively small, dedicated model performs on a domain-specific language and more importantly, how it is received by users.

------------

`[2402.17456] A Piece of Theatre: Investigating How Teachers Design LLM Chatbots to Assist Adolescent Cyberbullying Education <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17456>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:27:51 GMT
    Michael A. Hedderich, Natalie N. Bazarova, Wenting Zou, Ryun Shim, Xinda Ma, Qian Yang

Cyberbullying harms teenagers' mental health, and teaching them upstanding intervention is crucial. Wizard-of-Oz studies show chatbots can scale up personalized and interactive cyberbullying education, but implementing such chatbots is a challenging and delicate task. We created a no-code chatbot design tool for K-12 teachers. Using large language models and prompt chaining, our tool allows teachers to prototype bespoke dialogue flows and chatbot utterances. In offering this tool, we explore teachers' distinctive needs when designing chatbots to assist their teaching, and how chatbot design tools might better support them. Our findings reveal that teachers welcome the tool enthusiastically. Moreover, they see themselves as playwrights guiding both the students' and the chatbot's behaviors, while allowing for some improvisation.
Their goal is to enable students to rehearse both desirable and undesirable reactions to cyberbullying in a safe environment. We discuss the design opportunities LLM-Chains offer for empowering teachers and the research opportunities this work opens up.

------------

`[2402.17531] Nissist: An Incident Mitigation Copilot based on Troubleshooting Guides <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17531>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 14:14:23 GMT
    Kaikai An, Fangkai Yang, Liqun Li, Zhixing Ren, Hao Huang, Lu Wang, Pu Zhao, Yu Kang, Hua Ding, Qingwei Lin, Saravan Rajmohan, Qi Zhang

Effective incident management is pivotal for the smooth operation of enterprises-level cloud services. In order to expedite incident mitigation, service teams compile troubleshooting knowledge into Troubleshooting Guides (TSGs) accessible to on-call engineers (OCEs). While automated pipelines are enabled to resolve the most frequent and easy incidents, there still exist complex incidents that require OCEs' intervention. However, TSGs are often unstructured and incomplete, which requires manual interpretation by OCEs, leading to on-call fatigue and decreased productivity, especially among new-hire OCEs. In this work, we propose Nissist which leverages TSGs and incident mitigation histories to provide proactive suggestions, reducing human intervention. Leveraging Large Language Models (LLM), Nissist extracts insights from unstructured TSGs and historical incident mitigation discussions, forming a comprehensive knowledge base. Its multi-agent system design enhances proficiency in precisely discerning user queries, retrieving relevant information, and delivering systematic plans consecutively. Through our user case and experiment, we demonstrate that Nissist significant reduce Time to Mitigate (TTM) in incident mitigation, alleviating operational burdens on OCEs and improving service reliability. Our demo is available at https://aka.ms/nissist_demo.

------------

`[2402.17645] SongComposer: A Large Language Model for Lyric and Melody Composition in Song Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17645>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 16:15:28 GMT
    Shuangrui Ding, Zihan Liu, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Rui Qian, Conghui He, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

We present SongComposer, an innovative LLM designed for song composition. It could understand and generate melodies and lyrics in symbolic song representations, by leveraging the capability of LLM. Existing music-related LLM treated the music as quantized audio signals, while such implicit encoding leads to inefficient encoding and poor flexibility. In contrast, we resort to symbolic song representation, the mature and efficient way humans designed for music, and enable LLM to explicitly compose songs like humans. In practice, we design a novel tuple design to format lyric and three note attributes (pitch, duration, and rest duration) in the melody, which guarantees the correct LLM understanding of musical symbols and realizes precise alignment between lyrics and melody. To impart basic music understanding to LLM, we carefully collected SongCompose-PT, a large-scale song pretraining dataset that includes lyrics, melodies, and paired lyrics-melodies in either Chinese or English. After adequate pre-training, 10K carefully crafted QA pairs are used to empower the LLM with the instruction-following capability and solve diverse tasks. With extensive experiments, SongComposer demonstrates superior performance in lyric-to-melody generation, melody-to-lyric generation, song continuation, and text-to-song creation, outperforming advanced LLMs like GPT-4.

------------

`[2402.17505] BASES: Large-scale Web Search User Simulation with Large Language Model based Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17505>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:44:09 GMT
    Ruiyang Ren, Peng Qiu, Yingqi Qu, Jing Liu, Wayne Xin Zhao, Hua Wu, Ji-Rong Wen, Haifeng Wang

Due to the excellent capacities of large language models (LLMs), it becomes feasible to develop LLM-based agents for reliable user simulation. Considering the scarcity and limit (e.g., privacy issues) of real user data, in this paper, we conduct large-scale user simulation for web search, to improve the analysis and modeling of user search behavior. Specially, we propose BASES, a novel user simulation framework with LLM-based agents, designed to facilitate comprehensive simulations of web search user behaviors. Our simulation framework can generate unique user profiles at scale, which subsequently leads to diverse search behaviors. To demonstrate the effectiveness of BASES, we conduct evaluation experiments based on two human benchmarks in both Chinese and English, demonstrating that BASES can effectively simulate large-scale human-like search behaviors. To further accommodate the research on web search, we develop WARRIORS, a new large-scale dataset encompassing web search user behaviors, including both Chinese and English versions, which can greatly bolster research in the field of information retrieval. Our code and data will be publicly released soon.

------------

`[2402.16896] On Trojan Signatures in Large Language Models of Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16896>`__

::

    Fri, 23 Feb 2024 22:48:29 GMT
    Aftab Hussain, Md Rafiqul Islam Rabin, Mohammad Amin Alipour

Trojan signatures, as described by Fields et al. (2021), are noticeable differences in the distribution of the trojaned class parameters (weights) and the non-trojaned class parameters of the trojaned model, that can be used to detect the trojaned model. Fields et al. (2021) found trojan signatures in computer vision classification tasks with image models, such as, Resnet, WideResnet, Densenet, and VGG. In this paper, we investigate such signatures in the classifier layer parameters of large language models of source code.
Our results suggest that trojan signatures could not generalize to LLMs of code. We found that trojaned code models are stubborn, even when the models were poisoned under more explicit settings (finetuned with pre-trained weights frozen). We analyzed nine trojaned models for two binary classification tasks: clone and defect detection. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to examine weight-based trojan signature revelation techniques for large-language models of code and furthermore to demonstrate that detecting trojans only from the weights in such models is a hard problem.

------------

`[2402.16979] Algorithmic Arbitrariness in Content Moderation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16979>`__

::

    Mon, 26 Feb 2024 19:27:00 GMT
    Juan Felipe Gomez and Caio Vieira Machado and Lucas Monteiro Paes and Flavio P. Calmon

Machine learning (ML) is widely used to moderate online content. Despite its scalability relative to human moderation, the use of ML introduces unique challenges to content moderation. One such challenge is predictive multiplicity: multiple competing models for content classification may perform equally well on average, yet assign conflicting predictions to the same content. This multiplicity can result from seemingly innocuous choices during model development, such as random seed selection for parameter initialization.
We experimentally demonstrate how content moderation tools can arbitrarily classify samples as toxic, leading to arbitrary restrictions on speech. We discuss these findings in terms of human rights set out by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), namely freedom of expression, non-discrimination, and procedural justice. We analyze (i) the extent of predictive multiplicity among state-of-the-art LLMs used for detecting toxic content; (ii) the disparate impact of this arbitrariness across social groups; and (iii) how model multiplicity compares to unambiguous human classifications.
Our findings indicate that the up-scaled algorithmic moderation risks legitimizing an algorithmic leviathan, where an algorithm disproportionately manages human rights. To mitigate such risks, our study underscores the need to identify and increase the transparency of arbitrariness in content moderation applications. Since algorithmic content moderation is being fueled by pressing social concerns, such as disinformation and hate speech, our discussion on harms raises concerns relevant to policy debates. Our findings also contribute to content moderation and intermediary liability laws being discussed and passed in many countries, such as the Digital Services Act in the European Union, the Online Safety Act in the United Kingdom, and the Fake News Bill in Brazil.

------------

`[2402.17375] Impact of Computation in Integral Reinforcement Learning for Continuous-Time Control <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17375>`__

::

    Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:12:47 GMT
    Wenhan Cao, Wei Pan

Integral reinforcement learning (IntRL) demands the precise computation of the utility function's integral at its policy evaluation (PEV) stage. This is achieved through quadrature rules, which are weighted sums of utility functions evaluated from state samples obtained in discrete time. Our research reveals a critical yet underexplored phenomenon: the choice of the computational method -- in this case, the quadrature rule -- can significantly impact control performance. This impact is traced back to the fact that computational errors introduced in the PEV stage can affect the policy iteration's convergence behavior, which in turn affects the learned controller. To elucidate how computation impacts control, we draw a parallel between IntRL's policy iteration and Newton's method applied to the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation.
In this light, computational error in PEV manifests as an extra error term in each iteration of Newton's method, with its upper bound proportional to the computational error. Further, we demonstrate that when the utility function resides in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS), the optimal quadrature is achievable by employing Bayesian quadrature with the RKHS-inducing kernel function. We prove that the local convergence rates for IntRL using the trapezoidal rule and Bayesian quadrature with a Mat\'ern kernel to be $O(N^{-2})$ and $O(N^{-b})$, where $N$ is the number of evenly-spaced samples and $b$ is the Mat\'ern kernel's smoothness parameter. These theoretical findings are finally validated by two canonical control tasks.

------------

`[2402.16823] Language Agents as Optimizable Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16823>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:03:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Wenyi Wang Mr. [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 18:48:27 UTC (2,902 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:03:10 UTC (2,902 KB)
    Mingchen Zhuge, Wenyi Wang, Louis Kirsch, Francesco Faccio, Dmitrii Khizbullin and J\"urgen Schmidhuber

Various human-designed prompt engineering techniques have been proposed to improve problem solvers based on Large Language Models (LLMs), yielding many disparate code bases. We unify these approaches by describing LLM-based agents as computational graphs. The nodes implement functions to process multimodal data or query LLMs, and the edges describe the information flow between operations. Graphs can be recursively combined into larger composite graphs representing hierarchies of inter-agent collaboration (where edges connect operations of different agents). Our novel automatic graph optimizers (1) refine node-level LLM prompts (node optimization) and (2) improve agent orchestration by changing graph connectivity (edge optimization). Experiments demonstrate that our framework can be used to efficiently develop, integrate, and automatically improve various LLM agents. The code can be found at this https URL.

------------

`[2302.12822] Automatic Prompt Augmentation and Selection with Chain-of-Thought from Labeled Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.12822>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 14:49:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Shizhe Diao [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 24 Feb 2023 18:58:06 UTC (655 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 24 Feb 2024 15:33:14 UTC (1,341 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 14:49:43 UTC (1,341 KB)
    KaShun Shum, Shizhe Diao, Tong Zhang

Chain-of-thought (CoT) advances the reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs) and achieves superior performance in complex reasoning tasks. However, most CoT studies rely on carefully designed human-annotated rational chains to prompt LLMs, posing challenges for real-world applications where labeled data is available without rational chains. This paper proposes a new strategy, Automate-CoT (Automatic Prompt Augmentation and Selection with Chain-of-Thought), that can bypass human engineering of CoT by automatically augmenting rational chains from a small labeled dataset, and then pruning low-quality chains to construct a candidate pool of machine-generated rationale chains based on the labels. Finally, it selects the optimal combination of several rationale chains from the pool for CoT prompting by employing a variance-reduced policy gradient strategy to estimate the significance of each example. Automate-CoT enables a quick adaptation of the CoT technique to different tasks. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, where competitive results are achieved on arithmetic reasoning (+2.7%), commonsense reasoning (+3.4%), symbolic reasoning (+3.2%), and non-reasoning tasks (+2.5%). The code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2305.02547] PersonaLLM: Investigating the Ability of Large Language Models to Express Personality Traits <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02547>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 23:01:15 GMT
    Submission history From: Hang Jiang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 4 May 2023 04:58:00 UTC (479 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 18 May 2023 18:56:20 UTC (479 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 07:11:11 UTC (9,842 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 23:01:15 UTC (2,095 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 06:06:53 UTC (2,097 KB)
    Hang Jiang, Xiajie Zhang, Xubo Cao, Cynthia Breazeal, Jad Kabbara, Deb Roy

Despite the many use cases for large language models (LLMs) in creating personalized chatbots, there has been limited research on evaluating the extent to which the behaviors of personalized LLMs accurately and consistently reflect specific personality traits. We consider studying the behavior of LLM-based agents which we refer to as LLM personas and present a case study with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 to investigate whether LLMs can generate content that aligns with their assigned personality profiles. To this end, we simulate distinct LLM personas based on the Big Five personality model, have them complete the 44-item Big Five Inventory (BFI) personality test and a story writing task, and then assess their essays with automatic and human evaluations. Results show that LLM personas' self-reported BFI scores are consistent with their designated personality types, with large effect sizes observed across five traits. Additionally, LLM personas' writings have emerging representative linguistic patterns for personality traits when compared with a human writing corpus. Furthermore, human evaluation shows that humans can perceive some personality traits with an accuracy of up to 80%. Interestingly, the accuracy drops significantly when the annotators were informed of AI authorship.

------------

`[2305.12599] Abstract Meaning Representation-Based Logic-Driven Data Augmentation for Logical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12599>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:44:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Qiming Bao [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 21 May 2023 23:16:26 UTC (1,070 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 14 Oct 2023 09:44:32 UTC (6,515 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:44:36 UTC (4,070 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 11:14:55 UTC (4,140 KB)
    Qiming Bao, Alex Yuxuan Peng, Zhenyun Deng, Wanjun Zhong, Gael Gendron, Timothy Pistotti, Neset Tan, Nathan Young, Yang Chen, Yonghua Zhu, Paul Denny, Michael Witbrock, Jiamou Liu

Combining large language models with logical reasoning enhances their capacity to address problems in a robust and reliable manner. Nevertheless, the intricate nature of logical reasoning poses challenges to gathering reliable data from the web for building comprehensive training datasets, subsequently affecting the performance on downstream tasks. To address this, we introduce a novel logic-driven data augmentation approach, AMR-LDA. AMR-LDA converts the original text into an Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) graph, a structured semantic representation that encapsulates the logic structure of the sentence, upon which operations are performed to generate logically modified AMR graphs. The modified AMR graphs are subsequently converted back into text to create augmented data. Notably, our methodology is architecture-agnostic and enhances both generative large language models, such as GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, through prompt augmentation, and discriminative large language models through contrastive learning with logic-driven data augmentation. Empirical evidence underscores the efficacy of our proposed method with improvement in performance across seven downstream tasks, such as reading comprehension requiring logical reasoning, textual entailment, and natural language inference. Furthermore, our method leads on the ReClor leaderboard (this https URL). The source code and data are publicly available this https URL.

------------

`[2305.13252] "According to ...": Prompting Language Models Improves Quoting from Pre-Training Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13252>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:50:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Orion Weller [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 May 2023 17:25:24 UTC (291 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:50:33 UTC (297 KB)
    Orion Weller and Marc Marone and Nathaniel Weir and Dawn Lawrie and Daniel Khashabi and Benjamin Van Durme

Large Language Models (LLMs) may hallucinate and generate fake information, despite pre-training on factual data. Inspired by the journalistic device of "according to sources", we propose according-to prompting: directing LLMs to ground responses against previously observed text. To quantify this grounding, we propose a novel evaluation metric (QUIP-Score) that measures the extent to which model-produced answers are directly found in underlying text corpora. We illustrate with experiments on three corpora (Wikipedia, PubMed, and the U.S. legal tax code) that these prompts improve grounding under our metrics, with the additional benefit of often improving end-task performance. Furthermore, prompts that ask the model to decrease grounding (or to ground to other corpora) indeed decrease QUIP-Score, indicating the ability of LLMs to increase or decrease grounded generations on request.

------------

`[2305.13300] Adaptive Chameleon or Stubborn Sloth: Revealing the Behavior of Large Language Models in Knowledge Conflicts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13300>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 17:08:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Jian Xie [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 22 May 2023 17:57:41 UTC (902 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 24 May 2023 04:15:46 UTC (582 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 02:47:41 UTC (703 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 17:08:49 UTC (383 KB)
    Jian Xie, Kai Zhang, Jiangjie Chen, Renze Lou, Yu Su

By providing external information to large language models (LLMs), tool augmentation (including retrieval augmentation) has emerged as a promising solution for addressing the limitations of LLMs' static parametric memory. However, how receptive are LLMs to such external evidence, especially when the evidence conflicts with their parametric memory? We present the first comprehensive and controlled investigation into the behavior of LLMs when encountering knowledge conflicts. We propose a systematic framework to elicit high-quality parametric memory from LLMs and construct the corresponding counter-memory, which enables us to conduct a series of controlled experiments. Our investigation reveals seemingly contradicting behaviors of LLMs. On the one hand, different from prior wisdom, we find that LLMs can be highly receptive to external evidence even when that conflicts with their parametric memory, given that the external evidence is coherent and convincing. On the other hand, LLMs also demonstrate a strong confirmation bias when the external evidence contains some information that is consistent with their parametric memory, despite being presented with conflicting evidence at the same time. These results pose important implications that are worth careful consideration for the further development and deployment of tool- and retrieval-augmented LLMs. Resources are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2306.11698] DecodingTrust: A Comprehensive Assessment of Trustworthiness in GPT Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11698>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:41:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Boxin Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Jun 2023 17:24:23 UTC (111,096 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 11 Dec 2023 01:49:39 UTC (115,590 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 19 Dec 2023 19:38:39 UTC (115,590 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 5 Jan 2024 07:01:05 UTC (115,590 KB)
    [v5] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:41:01 UTC (115,591 KB)
    Boxin Wang, Weixin Chen, Hengzhi Pei, Chulin Xie, Mintong Kang, Chenhui Zhang, Chejian Xu, Zidi Xiong, Ritik Dutta, Rylan Schaeffer, Sang T. Truong, Simran Arora, Mantas Mazeika, Dan Hendrycks, Zinan Lin, Yu Cheng, Sanmi Koyejo, Dawn Song, Bo Li

Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) models have exhibited exciting progress in their capabilities, capturing the interest of practitioners and the public alike. Yet, while the literature on the trustworthiness of GPT models remains limited, practitioners have proposed employing capable GPT models for sensitive applications such as healthcare and finance -- where mistakes can be costly. To this end, this work proposes a comprehensive trustworthiness evaluation for large language models with a focus on GPT-4 and GPT-3.5, considering diverse perspectives -- including toxicity, stereotype bias, adversarial robustness, out-of-distribution robustness, robustness on adversarial demonstrations, privacy, machine ethics, and fairness. Based on our evaluations, we discover previously unpublished vulnerabilities to trustworthiness threats. For instance, we find that GPT models can be easily misled to generate toxic and biased outputs and leak private information in both training data and conversation history. We also find that although GPT-4 is usually more trustworthy than GPT-3.5 on standard benchmarks, GPT-4 is more vulnerable given jailbreaking system or user prompts, potentially because GPT-4 follows (misleading) instructions more precisely. Our work illustrates a comprehensive trustworthiness evaluation of GPT models and sheds light on the trustworthiness gaps. Our benchmark is publicly available at this https URL ; our dataset can be previewed at this https URL ; a concise version of this work is at this https URL .

------------

`[2306.17492] Preference Ranking Optimization for Human Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17492>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 18:42:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Feifan Song [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 30 Jun 2023 09:07:37 UTC (7,392 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 18:42:42 UTC (525 KB)
    Feifan Song, Bowen Yu, Minghao Li, Haiyang Yu, Fei Huang, Yongbin Li and Houfeng Wang

Large language models (LLMs) often contain misleading content, emphasizing the need to align them with human values to ensure secure AI systems. Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has been employed to achieve this alignment. However, it encompasses two main drawbacks: (1) RLHF exhibits complexity, instability, and sensitivity to hyperparameters in contrast to SFT. (2) Despite massive trial-and-error, multiple sampling is reduced to pair-wise contrast, thus lacking contrasts from a macro perspective. In this paper, we propose Preference Ranking Optimization (PRO) as an efficient SFT algorithm to directly fine-tune LLMs for human alignment. PRO extends the pair-wise contrast to accommodate preference rankings of any length. By iteratively contrasting candidates, PRO instructs the LLM to prioritize the best response while progressively ranking the rest responses. In this manner, PRO effectively transforms human alignment into aligning the probability ranking of n responses generated by LLM with the preference ranking of humans towards these responses. Experiments have shown that PRO outperforms baseline algorithms, achieving comparable results to ChatGPT and human responses through automatic-based, reward-based, GPT-4, and human evaluations.

------------

`[2309.08532] Connecting Large Language Models with Evolutionary Algorithms Yields Powerful Prompt Optimizers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08532>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:13:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Qingyan Guo [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Sep 2023 16:50:09 UTC (167 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:13:46 UTC (287 KB)
    Qingyan Guo, Rui Wang, Junliang Guo, Bei Li, Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Guoqing Liu, Jiang Bian, Yujiu Yang

Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in various tasks, but they rely on carefully crafted prompts that often demand substantial human effort. To automate this process, in this paper, we propose a novel framework for discrete prompt optimization, called EvoPrompt, which borrows the idea of evolutionary algorithms (EAs) as they exhibit good performance and fast convergence. To enable EAs to work on discrete prompts, which are natural language expressions that need to be coherent and human-readable, we connect LLMs with EAs. This approach allows us to simultaneously leverage the powerful language processing capabilities of LLMs and the efficient optimization performance of EAs. Specifically, abstaining from any gradients or parameters, EvoPrompt starts from a population of prompts and iteratively generates new prompts with LLMs based on the evolutionary operators, improving the population based on the development set. We optimize prompts for both closed- and open-source LLMs including GPT-3.5 and Alpaca, on 31 datasets covering language understanding, generation tasks, as well as BIG-Bench Hard (BBH) tasks. EvoPrompt significantly outperforms human-engineered prompts and existing methods for automatic prompt generation (e.g., up to 25% on BBH). Furthermore, EvoPrompt demonstrates that connecting LLMs with EAs creates synergies, which could inspire further research on the combination of LLMs and conventional algorithms.

------------

`[2310.02174] Ask Again, Then Fail: Large Language Models' Vacillations in Judgement <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02174>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 14:17:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Qiming Xie [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 16:08:41 UTC (1,707 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 08:26:30 UTC (2,268 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 14:17:53 UTC (2,268 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 03:29:56 UTC (2,268 KB)
    Qiming Xie, Zengzhi Wang, Yi Feng, and Rui Xia

We observe that current conversational language models often waver in their judgements when faced with follow-up questions, even if the original judgement was correct. This wavering presents a significant challenge for generating reliable responses and building user trust. To comprehensively assess this issue, we introduce a \textsc{Follow-up Questioning Mechanism} along with two metrics to quantify this inconsistency, confirming its widespread presence in current language models. To mitigate this issue, we explore various prompting strategies for closed-source models; moreover, we develop a training-based framework \textsc{Unwavering-FQ} that teaches language models to maintain their originally correct judgements through synthesized high-quality preference data. Our experimental results confirm the effectiveness of our framework and its ability to enhance the general capabilities of models.

------------

`[2310.05797] Are Large Language Models Post Hoc Explainers? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05797>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:33:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Chirag Agarwal [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 9 Oct 2023 15:31:03 UTC (976 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 19:33:38 UTC (976 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:33:36 UTC (1,482 KB)
    Nicholas Kroeger, Dan Ley, Satyapriya Krishna, Chirag Agarwal, Himabindu Lakkaraju

The increasing use of predictive models in high-stakes settings highlights the need for ensuring that relevant stakeholders understand and trust the decisions made by these models. To this end, several approaches have been proposed in recent literature to explain the behavior of complex predictive models in a post hoc fashion. However, despite the growing number of such post hoc explanation techniques, many require white-box access to the model and/or are computationally expensive, highlighting the need for next-generation post hoc explainers. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools that are effective at a wide variety of tasks. However, their potential to explain the behavior of other complex predictive models remains relatively unexplored. In this work, we carry out one of the initial explorations to analyze the effectiveness of LLMs in explaining other complex predictive models. To this end, we propose three novel approaches that exploit the in-context learning (ICL) capabilities of LLMs to explain the predictions made by other complex models. We conduct extensive experimentation with these approaches on real-world datasets to demonstrate that LLMs perform on par with state-of-the-art post hoc explainers, opening up promising avenues for future research into LLM-based post hoc explanations of complex predictive models.

------------

`[2310.18338] Small Language Models Fine-tuned to Coordinate Larger Language Models improve Complex Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18338>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:24:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Subhabrata Dutta [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 21 Oct 2023 15:23:20 UTC (8,609 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:24:06 UTC (8,631 KB)
    Gurusha Juneja, Subhabrata Dutta, Soumen Chakrabarti, Sunny Manchanda, Tanmoy Chakraborty

Large Language Models (LLMs) prompted to generate chain-of-thought (CoT) exhibit impressive reasoning capabilities. Recent attempts at prompt decomposition toward solving complex, multi-step reasoning problems depend on the ability of the LLM to simultaneously decompose and solve the problem. A significant disadvantage is that foundational LLMs are typically not available for fine-tuning, making adaptation computationally prohibitive. We believe (and demonstrate) that problem decomposition and solution generation are distinct capabilites, better addressed in separate modules, than by one monolithic LLM. We introduce DaSLaM, which uses a decomposition generator to decompose complex problems into subproblems that require fewer reasoning steps. These subproblems are answered by a solver. We use a relatively small (13B parameters) LM as the decomposition generator, which we train using policy gradient optimization to interact with a solver LM (regarded as black-box) and guide it through subproblems, thereby rendering our method solver-agnostic. Evaluation on multiple different reasoning datasets reveal that with our method, a 175 billion parameter LM (text-davinci-003) can produce competitive or even better performance, compared to its orders-of-magnitude larger successor, GPT-4. Additionally, we show that DaSLaM is not limited by the solver's capabilities as a function of scale; e.g., solver LMs with diverse sizes give significant performance improvement with our solver-agnostic decomposition technique. Exhaustive ablation studies evince the superiority of our modular finetuning technique over exorbitantly large decomposer LLMs, based on prompting alone.

------------

`[2311.08640] Multistage Collaborative Knowledge Distillation from a Large Language Model for Semi-Supervised Sequence Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08640>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:30:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiachen Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 01:28:28 UTC (675 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 13:57:53 UTC (850 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:30:53 UTC (856 KB)
    Jiachen Zhao, Wenlong Zhao, Andrew Drozdov, Benjamin Rozonoyer, Md Arafat Sultan, Jay-Yoon Lee, Mohit Iyyer, Andrew McCallum

We study semi-supervised sequence generation tasks, where the few labeled examples are too scarce to finetune a model, and meanwhile, few-shot prompted large language models (LLMs) exhibit room for improvement. In this paper, we present the discovery that a student model distilled from a few-shot prompted LLM can commonly generalize better than its teacher to unseen examples on such tasks. We find that the student is able to learn a general pattern from the high-quality pseudolabels produced by the teacher during knowledge distillation (KD), and favorably not a general pattern from the low-quality pseudolables. Leveraging this discovery, we propose a new method, Multistage Collaborative Knowledge Distillation from an LLM (MCKD), for these tasks. MCKD first few-shot prompts an LLM to produce pseudolabels for unlabeled data. Then at each stage of an iterative KD process, a new pair of students is trained on disjoint partitions of the pseudolabeled data, and produces new and improved pseudolabels for their unseen partitions. We conduct extensive experiments on four syntactic and semantic parsing datasets and show the effectiveness of MCKD for low-resource semi-supervised sequence generation. On CRAFT biomedical parsing, for example, 3-stage MCKD with 50 labeled examples outperforms an LLM teacher and vanilla KD by 7.5% and 3.7% parsing F1, respectively, and matches the performance of supervised finetuning with 500 labeled examples.

------------

`[2311.08894] Few-shot Transfer Learning for Knowledge Base Question Answering: Fusing Supervised Models with In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08894>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:04:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Mayur Patidar [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 11:56:56 UTC (39 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:04:44 UTC (228 KB)
    Mayur Patidar, Riya Sawhney, Avinash Singh, Biswajit Chatterjee, Mausam, Indrajit Bhattacharya

Existing Knowledge Base Question Answering (KBQA) architectures are hungry for annotated data, which make them costly and time-consuming to deploy. We introduce the problem of few-shot transfer learning for KBQA, where the target domain offers only a few labeled examples, but a large labeled training dataset is available in a source domain. We propose a novel KBQA architecture called FuSIC-KBQA that performs KB-retrieval using multiple source-trained retrievers, re-ranks using an LLM and uses this as input for LLM few-shot in-context learning to generate logical forms, which are further refined using execution-guided feedback. Experiments over four source-target KBQA pairs of varying complexity show that FuSIC-KBQA significantly outperforms adaptations of SoTA KBQA models for this setting. Additional experiments in the in-domain setting show that FuSIC-KBQA also outperforms SoTA KBQA models when training data is limited.

------------

`[2312.06185] KnowGPT: Knowledge Injection for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06185>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:05:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Qinggang Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 11 Dec 2023 07:56:25 UTC (1,229 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 09:28:20 UTC (1,230 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 10:05:04 UTC (1,345 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 13 Mar 2024 07:35:18 UTC (1,279 KB)
    Qinggang Zhang, Junnan Dong, Hao Chen, Daochen Zha, Zailiang Yu, Xiao Huang

Generative Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, offer interactive APIs that can answer common questions at a human-expert level. However, these models often give inaccurate or incorrect responses when faced with questions requiring domain-specific or professional-specific knowledge not covered in their training corpus. Furthermore, many state-of-the-art LLMs are not open-source, making it challenging to inject knowledge with model APIs only. In this work, we introduce KnowGPT, a black-box knowledge injection framework for LLMs in question answering. KnowGPT leverages deep reinforcement learning (RL) to extract relevant knowledge from Knowledge Graphs (KGs) and use Multi-Armed Bandit (MAB) to construct the most suitable prompt for each question. Our extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets showcase that KnowGPT significantly enhances the existing methods. Notably, KnowGPT achieves an average improvement of 23.7% over ChatGPT and an average improvement of 2.9% over GPT-4. Additionally, KnowGPT attains a 91.6% accuracy on the OpenbookQA official leaderboard, which is comparable to human-level performance.

------------

`[2401.11033] FAIR Enough: How Can We Develop and Assess a FAIR-Compliant Dataset for Large Language Models' Training? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11033>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:51:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Shaina Raza Dr. [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 Jan 2024 21:21:02 UTC (8,222 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 03:30:11 UTC (8,223 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 12:51:48 UTC (8,223 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 3 Apr 2024 10:34:10 UTC (8,217 KB)
    Shaina Raza, Shardul Ghuge, Chen Ding, Elham Dolatabadi, Deval Pandya

The rapid evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) highlights the necessity for ethical considerations and data integrity in AI development, particularly emphasizing the role of FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) data principles. While these principles are crucial for ethical data stewardship, their specific application in the context of LLM training data remains an under-explored area. This research gap is the focus of our study, which begins with an examination of existing literature to underline the importance of FAIR principles in managing data for LLM training. Building upon this, we propose a novel framework designed to integrate FAIR principles into the LLM development lifecycle. A contribution of our work is the development of a comprehensive checklist intended to guide researchers and developers in applying FAIR data principles consistently across the model development process. The utility and effectiveness of our framework are validated through a case study on creating a FAIR-compliant dataset aimed at detecting and mitigating biases in LLMs. We present this framework to the community as a tool to foster the creation of technologically advanced, ethically grounded, and socially responsible AI models.

------------

`[2401.14556] Looking Right is Sometimes Right: Investigating the Capabilities of Decoder-only LLMs for Sequence Labeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14556>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 16:48:17 GMT
    Submission history From: David Duki [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 25 Jan 2024 22:50:48 UTC (9,694 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 16:48:17 UTC (10,825 KB)
    David Duki\'c, Jan \v{S}najder

Pre-trained language models based on masked language modeling (MLM) excel in natural language understanding (NLU) tasks. While fine-tuned MLM-based encoders consistently outperform causal language modeling decoders of comparable size, recent decoder-only large language models (LLMs) perform on par with smaller MLM-based encoders. Although their performance improves with scale, LLMs fall short of achieving state-of-the-art results in information extraction (IE) tasks, many of which are formulated as sequence labeling (SL). We hypothesize that LLMs' poor SL performance stems from causal masking, which prevents the model from attending to tokens on the right of the current token. Yet, how exactly and to what extent LLMs' performance on SL can be improved remains unclear. We explore techniques for improving the SL performance of open LLMs on IE tasks by applying layer-wise removal of the causal mask (CM) during LLM fine-tuning. This approach yields performance gains competitive with state-of-the-art SL models, matching or outperforming the results of CM removal from all blocks. Our findings hold for diverse SL tasks, demonstrating that open LLMs with layer-dependent CM removal outperform strong MLM-based encoders and even instruction-tuned LLMs.

------------

`[2401.17464] Efficient Tool Use with Chain-of-Abstraction Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.17464>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:26:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Silin Gao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 21:53:30 UTC (734 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:26:40 UTC (730 KB)
    Silin Gao, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Ping Yu, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Ramakanth Pasunuru, Olga Golovneva, Koustuv Sinha, Asli Celikyilmaz, Antoine Bosselut, Tianlu Wang

To achieve faithful reasoning that aligns with human expectations, large language models (LLMs) need to ground their reasoning to real-world knowledge (e.g., web facts, math and physical rules). Tools help LLMs access this external knowledge, but there remains challenges for fine-tuning LLM agents (e.g., Toolformer) to invoke tools in multi-step reasoning problems, where inter-connected tool calls require holistic and efficient tool usage planning.
In this work, we propose a new method for LLMs to better leverage tools in multi-step reasoning. Our method, Chain-of-Abstraction (CoA), trains LLMs to first decode reasoning chains with abstract placeholders, and then call domain tools to reify each reasoning chain by filling in specific knowledge. This planning with abstract chains enables LLMs to learn more general reasoning strategies, which are robust to shifts of domain knowledge (e.g., math results) relevant to different reasoning questions. It also allows LLMs to perform decoding and calling of external tools in parallel, which avoids the inference delay caused by waiting for tool responses. In mathematical reasoning and Wiki QA domains, we show that our method consistently outperforms previous chain-of-thought and tool-augmented baselines on both in-distribution and out-of-distribution test sets, with an average ~6% absolute QA accuracy improvement. LLM agents trained with our method also show more efficient tool use, with inference speed being on average ~1.4x faster than baseline tool-augmented LLMs.

------------

`[2402.03848] ANLS* -- A Universal Document Processing Metric for Generative Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03848>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:14:28 GMT
    Submission history From: David Peer [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 09:50:08 UTC (184 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:14:28 UTC (184 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 05:58:10 UTC (185 KB)
    David Peer, Philemon Sch\"opf, Volckmar Nebendahl, Alexander Rietzler, Sebastian Stabinger

Traditionally, discriminative models have been the predominant choice for tasks like document classification and information extraction. These models make predictions that fall into a limited number of predefined classes, facilitating a binary true or false evaluation and enabling the direct calculation of metrics such as the F1 score. However, recent advancements in generative large language models (GLLMs) have prompted a shift in the field due to their enhanced zero-shot capabilities, which eliminate the need for a downstream dataset and computationally expensive fine-tuning. However, evaluating GLLMs presents a challenge as the binary true or false evaluation used for discriminative models is not applicable to the predictions made by GLLMs.
This paper introduces a new metric for generative models called ANLS* for evaluating a wide variety of tasks, including information extraction and classification tasks. The ANLS* metric extends existing ANLS metrics as a drop-in-replacement and is still compatible with previously reported ANLS scores. An evaluation of 7 different datasets, 6 different GLLMs and 3 different prompting methods using the ANLS* metric is also provided, demonstrating the importance of the proposed metric.
We also benchmark a novel approach to generate prompts for documents, called SFT, against other prompting techniques such as LATIN. In 27 out of 35 cases, SFT outperforms other techniques and improves the state-of-the-art, sometimes by as much as $18$ percentage points.
Sources are available at this https URL

------------

`[2402.09216] Scaling the Authoring of AutoTutors with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09216>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:27:27 GMT
    Submission history From: Sankalan Pal Chowdhury [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 14:53:56 UTC (1,214 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:27:27 UTC (1,227 KB)
    Sankalan Pal Chowdhury, Vil\'em Zouhar, Mrinmaya Sachan

Large Language Models (LLMs) have found several use cases in education, ranging from automatic question generation to essay evaluation. In this paper, we explore the potential of using Large Language Models (LLMs) to author Intelligent Tutoring Systems. A common pitfall of LLMs is their straying from desired pedagogical strategies such as leaking the answer to the student, and in general, providing no guarantees. We posit that while LLMs with certain guardrails can take the place of subject experts, the overall pedagogical design still needs to be handcrafted for the best learning results. Based on this principle, we create a sample end-to-end tutoring system named MWPTutor, which uses LLMs to fill in the state space of a pre-defined finite state transducer. This approach retains the structure and the pedagogy of traditional tutoring systems that has been developed over the years by learning scientists but brings in additional flexibility of LLM-based approaches. Through a human evaluation study on two datasets based on math word problems, we show that our hybrid approach achieves a better overall tutoring score than an instructed, but otherwise free-form, GPT-4. MWPTutor is completely modular and opens up the scope for the community to improve its performance by improving individual modules or using different teaching strategies that it can follow

------------

`[2402.10573] LinkNER: Linking Local Named Entity Recognition Models to Large Language Models using Uncertainty <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10573>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 15:08:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhen Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 11:02:29 UTC (4,905 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 15:08:02 UTC (4,905 KB)
    Zhen Zhang, Yuhua Zhao, Hang Gao, and Mengting Hu

Named Entity Recognition (NER) serves as a fundamental task in natural language understanding, bearing direct implications for web content analysis, search engines, and information retrieval systems. Fine-tuned NER models exhibit satisfactory performance on standard NER benchmarks. However, due to limited fine-tuning data and lack of knowledge, it performs poorly on unseen entity recognition. As a result, the usability and reliability of NER models in web-related applications are compromised. Instead, Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 possess extensive external knowledge, but research indicates that they lack specialty for NER tasks. Furthermore, non-public and large-scale weights make tuning LLMs difficult. To address these challenges, we propose a framework that combines small fine-tuned models with LLMs (LinkNER) and an uncertainty-based linking strategy called RDC that enables fine-tuned models to complement black-box LLMs, achieving better performance. We experiment with both standard NER test sets and noisy social media datasets. LinkNER enhances NER task performance, notably surpassing SOTA models in robustness tests. We also quantitatively analyze the influence of key components like uncertainty estimation methods, LLMs, and in-context learning on diverse NER tasks, offering specific web-related recommendations.

------------

`[2402.12563] Confidence Matters: Revisiting Intrinsic Self-Correction Capabilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12563>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 06:32:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Loka Li [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 21:38:02 UTC (22,020 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 06:32:35 UTC (22,054 KB)
    Loka Li, Guangyi Chen, Yusheng Su, Zhenhao Chen, Yixuan Zhang, Eric Xing, Kun Zhang

The recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has catalyzed an increasing interest in their self-correction capabilities. This paper presents a comprehensive investigation into the intrinsic self-correction of LLMs, attempting to address the ongoing debate about its feasibility. Our research has identified an important latent factor - the "confidence" of LLMs - during the self-correction process. Overlooking this factor may cause the models to over-criticize themselves, resulting in unreliable conclusions regarding the efficacy of self-correction. We have experimentally observed that LLMs possess the capability to understand the "confidence" in their own responses. It motivates us to develop an "If-or-Else" (IoE) prompting framework, designed to guide LLMs in assessing their own "confidence", facilitating intrinsic self-corrections. We conduct extensive experiments and demonstrate that our IoE-based Prompt can achieve a consistent improvement regarding the accuracy of self-corrected responses over the initial answers. Our study not only sheds light on the underlying factors affecting self-correction in LLMs, but also introduces a practical framework that utilizes the IoE prompting principle to efficiently improve self-correction capabilities with "confidence". The code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.14872] Semantic Mirror Jailbreak: Genetic Algorithm Based Jailbreak Prompts Against Open-source LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14872>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:49:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiaoxia Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 15:13:50 UTC (302 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 13:49:22 UTC (302 KB)
    Xiaoxia Li, Siyuan Liang, Jiyi Zhang, Han Fang, Aishan Liu, Ee-Chien Chang

Large Language Models (LLMs), used in creative writing, code generation, and translation, generate text based on input sequences but are vulnerable to jailbreak attacks, where crafted prompts induce harmful outputs. Most jailbreak prompt methods use a combination of jailbreak templates followed by questions to ask to create jailbreak prompts. However, existing jailbreak prompt designs generally suffer from excessive semantic differences, resulting in an inability to resist defenses that use simple semantic metrics as thresholds. Jailbreak prompts are semantically more varied than the original questions used for queries. In this paper, we introduce a Semantic Mirror Jailbreak (SMJ) approach that bypasses LLMs by generating jailbreak prompts that are semantically similar to the original question. We model the search for jailbreak prompts that satisfy both semantic similarity and jailbreak validity as a multi-objective optimization problem and employ a standardized set of genetic algorithms for generating eligible prompts. Compared to the baseline AutoDAN-GA, SMJ achieves attack success rates (ASR) that are at most 35.4% higher without ONION defense and 85.2% higher with ONION defense. SMJ's better performance in all three semantic meaningfulness metrics of Jailbreak Prompt, Similarity, and Outlier, also means that SMJ is resistant to defenses that use those metrics as thresholds.

------------

`[2402.15159] Machine Unlearning of Pre-trained Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15159>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 05:23:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Jin Yao [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 07:43:26 UTC (6,971 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 05:23:35 UTC (7,013 KB)
    Jin Yao, Eli Chien, Minxin Du, Xinyao Niu, Tianhao Wang, Zezhou Cheng, Xiang Yue

This study investigates the concept of the `right to be forgotten' within the context of large language models (LLMs). We explore machine unlearning as a pivotal solution, with a focus on pre-trained models--a notably under-researched area. Our research delineates a comprehensive framework for machine unlearning in pre-trained LLMs, encompassing a critical analysis of seven diverse unlearning methods. Through rigorous evaluation using curated datasets from arXiv, books, and GitHub, we establish a robust benchmark for unlearning performance, demonstrating that these methods are over $10^5$ times more computationally efficient than retraining. Our results show that integrating gradient ascent with gradient descent on in-distribution data improves hyperparameter robustness. We also provide detailed guidelines for efficient hyperparameter tuning in the unlearning process. Our findings advance the discourse on ethical AI practices, offering substantive insights into the mechanics of machine unlearning for pre-trained LLMs and underscoring the potential for responsible AI development.

------------

`[2402.16040] EHRNoteQA: A Patient-Specific Question Answering Benchmark for Evaluating Large Language Models in Clinical Settings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16040>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 06:25:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Sunjun Kweon [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 09:41:50 UTC (8,319 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 06:25:25 UTC (8,319 KB)
    Sunjun Kweon, Jiyoun Kim, Heeyoung Kwak, Dongchul Cha, Hangyul Yoon, Kwanghyun Kim, Seunghyun Won, Edward Choi

This study introduces EHRNoteQA, a novel patient-specific question answering benchmark tailored for evaluating Large Language Models (LLMs) in clinical environments. Based on MIMIC-IV Electronic Health Record (EHR), a team of three medical professionals has curated the dataset comprising 962 unique questions, each linked to a specific patient's EHR clinical notes. What makes EHRNoteQA distinct from existing EHR-based benchmarks is as follows: Firstly, it is the first dataset to adopt a multi-choice question answering format, a design choice that effectively evaluates LLMs with reliable scores in the context of automatic evaluation, compared to other formats. Secondly, it requires an analysis of multiple clinical notes to answer a single question, reflecting the complex nature of real-world clinical decision-making where clinicians review extensive records of patient histories. Our comprehensive evaluation on various large language models showed that their scores on EHRNoteQA correlate more closely with their performance in addressing real-world medical questions evaluated by clinicians than their scores from other LLM benchmarks. This underscores the significance of EHRNoteQA in evaluating LLMs for medical applications and highlights its crucial role in facilitating the integration of LLMs into healthcare systems. The dataset will be made available to the public under PhysioNet credential access, promoting further research in this vital field.

------------

`[2402.16063] Citation-Enhanced Generation for LLM-based Chatbot <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16063>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:07:23 GMT
    Submission history From: WeiTao Li [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 11:24:41 UTC (731 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:07:23 UTC (731 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 4 Mar 2024 01:53:35 UTC (731 KB)
    Weitao Li, Junkai Li, Weizhi Ma, Yang Liu

Large language models (LLMs) exhibit powerful general intelligence across diverse scenarios, including their integration into chatbots. However, a vital challenge of LLM-based chatbots is that they may produce hallucinated content in responses, which significantly limits their applicability. Various efforts have been made to alleviate hallucination, such as retrieval augmented generation and reinforcement learning with human feedback, but most of them require additional training and data annotation. In this paper, we propose a novel post-hoc Citation-Enhanced Generation (CEG) approach combined with retrieval argumentation. Unlike previous studies that focus on preventing hallucinations during generation, our method addresses this issue in a post-hoc way. It incorporates a retrieval module to search for supporting documents relevant to the generated content, and employs a natural language inference-based citation generation module. Once the statements in the generated content lack of reference, our model can regenerate responses until all statements are supported by citations. Note that our method is a training-free plug-and-play plugin that is capable of various LLMs. Experiments on various hallucination-related datasets show our framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods in both hallucination detection and response regeneration on three benchmarks. Our codes and dataset will be publicly available.

------------

`[2402.16107] FuseChat: Knowledge Fusion of Chat Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16107>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 04:48:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Fanqi Wan [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 15:11:58 UTC (243 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 04:48:36 UTC (243 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 3 Mar 2024 07:21:36 UTC (243 KB)
    Fanqi Wan, Ziyi Yang, Longguang Zhong, Xiaojun Quan, Xinting Huang, Wei Bi

While training large language models (LLMs) from scratch can indeed lead to models with distinct capabilities and strengths, this approach incurs substantial costs and may lead to potential redundancy in competencies. An alternative strategy is to combine existing LLMs into a more robust LLM, thereby diminishing the necessity for expensive pre-training. However, due to the diverse architectures of LLMs, direct parameter blending proves to be unfeasible. Recently, \textsc{FuseLLM} introduced the concept of knowledge fusion to transfer the collective knowledge of multiple structurally varied LLMs into a target LLM through lightweight continual training. In this report, we extend the scalability and flexibility of the \textsc{FuseLLM} framework to realize the fusion of chat LLMs, resulting in \textsc{FuseChat}. \textsc{FuseChat} comprises two main stages. Firstly, we undertake knowledge fusion for structurally and scale-varied source LLMs to derive multiple target LLMs of identical structure and size via lightweight fine-tuning. Then, these target LLMs are merged within the parameter space, wherein we propose a novel method for determining the merging weights based on the variation ratio of parameter matrices before and after fine-tuning. We validate our approach using three prominent chat LLMs with diverse architectures and scales, namely \texttt{NH2-Mixtral-8x7B}, \texttt{NH2-Solar-10.7B}, and \texttt{OpenChat-3.5-7B}. Experimental results spanning various chat domains demonstrate the superiority of \texttt{\textsc{FuseChat}-7B} across a broad spectrum of chat LLMs at 7B and 34B scales, even surpassing \texttt{GPT-3.5 (March)} and approaching \texttt{Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct}. Our code, model weights, and data are openly accessible at \url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2402.16311] Cross-domain Chinese Sentence Pattern Parsing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16311>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:21:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Jingsi Yu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 05:30:48 UTC (3,568 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:21:35 UTC (3,568 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 03:22:41 UTC (3,567 KB)
    Jingsi Yu, Cunliang Kong, Liner Yang, Meishan Zhang, Lin Zhu, Yujie Wang, Haozhe Lin, Maosong Sun, Erhong Yang

Sentence Pattern Structure (SPS) parsing is a syntactic analysis method primarily employed in language teaching.Existing SPS parsers rely heavily on textbook corpora for training, lacking cross-domain this http URL overcome this constraint, this paper proposes an innovative approach leveraging large language models (LLMs) within a self-training framework. Partial syntactic rules from a source domain are combined with target domain sentences to dynamically generate training data, enhancing the adaptability of the parser to diverse domains.Experiments conducted on textbook and news domains demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, outperforming rule-based baselines by 1.68 points on F1 metrics.

------------

`[2309.16595] Can LLMs Effectively Leverage Graph Structural Information through Prompts, and Why? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16595>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 00:45:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Jin Huang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Sep 2023 16:58:37 UTC (206 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 29 Sep 2023 20:59:55 UTC (207 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 00:45:03 UTC (492 KB)
    Jin Huang, Xingjian Zhang, Qiaozhu Mei, Jiaqi Ma

Large language models (LLMs) are gaining increasing attention for their capability to process graphs with rich text attributes, especially in a zero-shot fashion. Recent studies demonstrate that LLMs obtain decent text classification performance on common text-rich graph benchmarks, and the performance can be improved by appending encoded structural information as natural languages into prompts. We aim to understand why the incorporation of structural information inherent in graph data can improve the prediction performance of LLMs. First, we rule out the concern of data leakage by curating a novel leakage-free dataset and conducting a comparative analysis alongside a previously widely-used dataset. Second, as past work usually encodes the ego-graph by describing the graph structure in natural language, we ask the question: do LLMs understand the graph structure in accordance with the intent of the prompt designers? Third, we investigate why LLMs can improve their performance after incorporating structural information. Our exploration of these questions reveals that (i) there is no substantial evidence that the performance of LLMs is significantly attributed to data leakage; (ii) instead of understanding prompts as graph structures as intended by the prompt designers, LLMs tend to process prompts more as contextual paragraphs and (iii) the most efficient elements of the local neighborhood included in the prompt are phrases that are pertinent to the node label, rather than the graph structure.

------------

`[2312.11462] Cascade Speculative Drafting for Even Faster LLM Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11462>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 05:42:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Ziyi Chen [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 18 Dec 2023 18:59:46 UTC (67 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Dec 2023 18:46:59 UTC (80 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 05:18:57 UTC (203 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 05:42:31 UTC (203 KB)
    Ziyi Chen, Xiaocong Yang, Jiacheng Lin, Chenkai Sun, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang, Jie Huang

Introduced to enhance the efficiency of large language model (LLM) inference, speculative decoding operates by having a smaller model generate a draft. A larger target model then reviews this draft to align with its output, and any acceptance by the target model results in a reduction of the number of the target model runs, ultimately improving efficiency. However, the drafting process in speculative decoding includes slow autoregressive generation and allocates equal time to generating tokens, irrespective of their importance. These inefficiencies collectively contribute to the suboptimal performance of speculative decoding. To further improve LLM inference, we introduce Cascade Speculative Drafting (CS Drafting), a speculative execution algorithm that incorporates two types of cascades. The Vertical Cascade eliminates autoregressive generation from neural models, while the Horizontal Cascade optimizes time allocation in drafting for improved efficiency. Combining both cascades, CS Drafting achieves up to an 81 percent additional speedup over speculative decoding in our experiments, while maintaining the same output distribution as the target model. Our code is publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.03299] GUARD: Role-playing to Generate Natural-language Jailbreakings to Test Guideline Adherence of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03299>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 00:09:00 GMT
    Submission history From: Ruoxi Chen [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 18:54:43 UTC (5,101 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 00:09:00 UTC (5,101 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 6 Mar 2024 04:28:09 UTC (5,101 KB)
    Haibo Jin, Ruoxi Chen, Andy Zhou, Jinyin Chen, Yang Zhang, Haohan Wang

The discovery of "jailbreaks" to bypass safety filters of Large Language Models (LLMs) and harmful responses have encouraged the community to implement safety measures. One major safety measure is to proactively test the LLMs with jailbreaks prior to the release. Therefore, such testing will require a method that can generate jailbreaks massively and efficiently. In this paper, we follow a novel yet intuitive strategy to generate jailbreaks in the style of the human generation. We propose a role-playing system that assigns four different roles to the user LLMs to collaborate on new jailbreaks. Furthermore, we collect existing jailbreaks and split them into different independent characteristics using clustering frequency and semantic patterns sentence by sentence. We organize these characteristics into a knowledge graph, making them more accessible and easier to retrieve. Our system of different roles will leverage this knowledge graph to generate new jailbreaks, which have proved effective in inducing LLMs to generate unethical or guideline-violating responses. In addition, we also pioneer a setting in our system that will automatically follow the government-issued guidelines to generate jailbreaks to test whether LLMs follow the guidelines accordingly. We refer to our system as GUARD (Guideline Upholding through Adaptive Role-play Diagnostics). We have empirically validated the effectiveness of GUARD on three cutting-edge open-sourced LLMs (Vicuna-13B, LongChat-7B, and Llama-2-7B), as well as a widely-utilized commercial LLM (ChatGPT). Moreover, our work extends to the realm of vision language models (MiniGPT-v2 and Gemini Vision Pro), showcasing GUARD's versatility and contributing valuable insights for the development of safer, more reliable LLM-based applications across diverse modalities.

------------

`[2402.03563] Distinguishing the Knowable from the Unknowable with Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03563>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:37:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Gustaf Ahdritz [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 22:22:49 UTC (3,347 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:37:08 UTC (5,207 KB)
    Gustaf Ahdritz, Tian Qin, Nikhil Vyas, Boaz Barak, Benjamin L. Edelman

We study the feasibility of identifying epistemic uncertainty (reflecting a lack of knowledge), as opposed to aleatoric uncertainty (reflecting entropy in the underlying distribution), in the outputs of large language models (LLMs) over free-form text. In the absence of ground-truth probabilities, we explore a setting where, in order to (approximately) disentangle a given LLM's uncertainty, a significantly larger model stands in as a proxy for the ground truth. We show that small linear probes trained on the embeddings of frozen, pretrained models accurately predict when larger models will be more confident at the token level and that probes trained on one text domain generalize to others. Going further, we propose a fully unsupervised method that achieves non-trivial accuracy on the same task. Taken together, we interpret these results as evidence that LLMs naturally contain internal representations of different types of uncertainty that could potentially be leveraged to devise more informative indicators of model confidence in diverse practical settings.

------------

`[2402.04249] HarmBench: A Standardized Evaluation Framework for Automated Red Teaming and Robust Refusal <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04249>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 04:43:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Mantas Mazeika [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 18:59:08 UTC (1,566 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 04:43:08 UTC (2,612 KB)
    Mantas Mazeika, Long Phan, Xuwang Yin, Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Norman Mu, Elham Sakhaee, Nathaniel Li, Steven Basart, Bo Li, David Forsyth, Dan Hendrycks

Automated red teaming holds substantial promise for uncovering and mitigating the risks associated with the malicious use of large language models (LLMs), yet the field lacks a standardized evaluation framework to rigorously assess new methods. To address this issue, we introduce HarmBench, a standardized evaluation framework for automated red teaming. We identify several desirable properties previously unaccounted for in red teaming evaluations and systematically design HarmBench to meet these criteria. Using HarmBench, we conduct a large-scale comparison of 18 red teaming methods and 33 target LLMs and defenses, yielding novel insights. We also introduce a highly efficient adversarial training method that greatly enhances LLM robustness across a wide range of attacks, demonstrating how HarmBench enables codevelopment of attacks and defenses. We open source HarmBench at this https URL.

------------

`[2402.13516] ProSparse: Introducing and Enhancing Intrinsic Activation Sparsity within Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13516>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:27:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Chenyang Song [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 21 Feb 2024 03:58:49 UTC (228 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 07:27:07 UTC (229 KB)
    Chenyang Song, Xu Han, Zhengyan Zhang, Shengding Hu, Xiyu Shi, Kuai Li, Chen Chen, Zhiyuan Liu, Guangli Li, Tao Yang, Maosong Sun

Activation sparsity refers to the existence of considerable weakly-contributed elements among activation outputs. As a prevalent property of the models using the ReLU activation function, it has been proven a promising paradigm to boost model inference efficiency. Nevertheless, most large language models (LLMs) adopt activation functions without intrinsic activation sparsity (e.g., GELU and Swish). Some recent efforts have explored introducing ReLU or its variants as the substitutive activation function to help LLMs achieve activation sparsity and inference acceleration, but few can simultaneously obtain high sparsity and comparable model performance. This paper introduces an effective sparsification method named "ProSparse" to push LLMs for higher activation sparsity without decreasing model performance. Specifically, after substituting the activation function of LLMs with ReLU, ProSparse adopts progressive sparsity regularization with a factor smoothly increasing along sine curves in multiple stages. This can enhance activation sparsity and alleviate performance degradation by avoiding radical shifts in activation distribution. With ProSparse, we obtain high sparsity of 89.32% and 88.80% for LLaMA2-7B and LLaMA2-13B, respectively, achieving comparable performance to their original Swish-activated versions. Our inference acceleration experiments further demonstrate the practical acceleration brought by higher activation sparsity.

------------

`[2402.14228] COPR: Continual Human Preference Learning via Optimal Policy Regularization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14228>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:47:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhang Han [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 02:20:08 UTC (250 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:47:37 UTC (250 KB)
    Han Zhang, Lin Gui, Yu Lei, Yuanzhao Zhai, Yehong Zhang, Yulan He, Hui Wang, Yue Yu, Kam-Fai Wong, Bin Liang, Ruifeng Xu

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is commonly utilized to improve the alignment of Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences. Given the evolving nature of human preferences, continual alignment becomes more crucial and practical in comparison to traditional static alignment. Nevertheless, making RLHF compatible with Continual Learning (CL) is challenging due to its complex process. Meanwhile, directly learning new human preferences may lead to Catastrophic Forgetting (CF) of historical preferences, resulting in helpless or harmful outputs. To overcome these challenges, we propose the Continual Optimal Policy Regularization (COPR) method, which draws inspiration from the optimal policy theory. COPR utilizes a sampling distribution as a demonstration and regularization constraints for CL. It adopts the Lagrangian Duality (LD) method to dynamically regularize the current policy based on the historically optimal policy, which prevents CF and avoids over-emphasizing unbalanced objectives. We also provide formal proof for the learnability of COPR. The experimental results show that COPR outperforms strong CL baselines on our proposed benchmark, in terms of reward-based, GPT-4 evaluations and human assessment. Furthermore, we validate the robustness of COPR under various CL settings, including different backbones, replay memory sizes, and learning orders.

------------

`[2402.15183] GraphEdit: Large Language Models for Graph Structure Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15183>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:22:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Zirui Guo [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 08:29:42 UTC (959 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 08:22:11 UTC (959 KB)
    [v3] Thu, 29 Feb 2024 04:15:44 UTC (960 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 05:22:00 UTC (959 KB)
    Zirui Guo, Lianghao Xia, Yanhua Yu, Yuling Wang, Zixuan Yang, Wei Wei, Liang Pang, Tat-Seng Chua, Chao Huang

Graph Structure Learning (GSL) focuses on capturing intrinsic dependencies and interactions among nodes in graph-structured data by generating novel graph structures. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have emerged as promising GSL solutions, utilizing recursive message passing to encode node-wise inter-dependencies. However, many existing GSL methods heavily depend on explicit graph structural information as supervision signals, leaving them susceptible to challenges such as data noise and sparsity. In this work, we propose GraphEdit, an approach that leverages large language models (LLMs) to learn complex node relationships in graph-structured data. By enhancing the reasoning capabilities of LLMs through instruction-tuning over graph structures, we aim to overcome the limitations associated with explicit graph structural information and enhance the reliability of graph structure learning. Our approach not only effectively denoises noisy connections but also identifies node-wise dependencies from a global perspective, providing a comprehensive understanding of the graph structure. We conduct extensive experiments on multiple benchmark datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of GraphEdit across various settings. We have made our model implementation available at: this https URL.

------------

`[2309.08541] When do Generative Query and Document Expansions Fail? A Comprehensive Study Across Methods, Retrievers, and Datasets <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08541>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:57:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Orion Weller [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Sep 2023 17:05:43 UTC (185 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 20:57:33 UTC (194 KB)
    Orion Weller, Kyle Lo, David Wadden, Dawn Lawrie, Benjamin Van Durme, Arman Cohan, Luca Soldaini

Using large language models (LMs) for query or document expansion can improve generalization in information retrieval. However, it is unknown whether these techniques are universally beneficial or only effective in specific settings, such as for particular retrieval models, dataset domains, or query types. To answer this, we conduct the first comprehensive analysis of LM-based expansion. We find that there exists a strong negative correlation between retriever performance and gains from expansion: expansion improves scores for weaker models, but generally harms stronger models. We show this trend holds across a set of eleven expansion techniques, twelve datasets with diverse distribution shifts, and twenty-four retrieval models. Through qualitative error analysis, we hypothesize that although expansions provide extra information (potentially improving recall), they add additional noise that makes it difficult to discern between the top relevant documents (thus introducing false positives). Our results suggest the following recipe: use expansions for weaker models or when the target dataset significantly differs from training corpus in format; otherwise, avoid expansions to keep the relevance signal clear.

------------

`[2309.13633] EvalLM: Interactive Evaluation of Large Language Model Prompts on User-Defined Criteria <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13633>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 17:10:30 GMT
    Submission history From: Tae Soo Kim [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 24 Sep 2023 13:19:38 UTC (5,151 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 17:10:30 UTC (5,374 KB)
    Tae Soo Kim, Yoonjoo Lee, Jamin Shin, Young-Ho Kim, Juho Kim

By simply composing prompts, developers can prototype novel generative applications with Large Language Models (LLMs). To refine prototypes into products, however, developers must iteratively revise prompts by evaluating outputs to diagnose weaknesses. Formative interviews (N=8) revealed that developers invest significant effort in manually evaluating outputs as they assess context-specific and subjective criteria. We present EvalLM, an interactive system for iteratively refining prompts by evaluating multiple outputs on user-defined criteria. By describing criteria in natural language, users can employ the system's LLM-based evaluator to get an overview of where prompts excel or fail, and improve these based on the evaluator's feedback. A comparative study (N=12) showed that EvalLM, when compared to manual evaluation, helped participants compose more diverse criteria, examine twice as many outputs, and reach satisfactory prompts with 59% fewer revisions. Beyond prompts, our work can be extended to augment model evaluation and alignment in specific application contexts.

------------

`[2311.06310] Labor Space: A Unifying Representation of the Labor Market via Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06310>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 01:20:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Seongwoon Kim [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 9 Nov 2023 06:41:10 UTC (1,562 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 20 Nov 2023 06:22:21 UTC (1,562 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 01:20:07 UTC (2,109 KB)
    Seongwoon Kim, Yong-Yeol Ahn, Jaehyuk Park

The labor market is a complex ecosystem comprising diverse, interconnected entities, such as industries, occupations, skills, and firms. Due to the lack of a systematic method to map these heterogeneous entities together, each entity has been analyzed in isolation or only through pairwise relationships, inhibiting comprehensive understanding of the whole ecosystem. Here, we introduce $\textit{Labor Space}$, a vector-space embedding of heterogeneous labor market entities, derived through applying a large language model with fine-tuning. Labor Space exposes the complex relational fabric of various labor market constituents, facilitating coherent integrative analysis of industries, occupations, skills, and firms, while retaining type-specific clustering. We demonstrate its unprecedented analytical capacities, including positioning heterogeneous entities on an economic axes, such as `Manufacturing--Healthcare'. Furthermore, by allowing vector arithmetic of these entities, Labor Space enables the exploration of complex inter-unit relations, and subsequently the estimation of the ramifications of economic shocks on individual units and their ripple effect across the labor market. We posit that Labor Space provides policymakers and business leaders with a comprehensive unifying framework for labor market analysis and simulation, fostering more nuanced and effective strategic decision-making.

------------

`[2401.13641] How Good is ChatGPT at Face Biometrics? A First Look into Recognition, Soft Biometrics, and Explainability <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13641>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:00:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Ruben Tolosana [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 Jan 2024 18:10:39 UTC (20,715 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 11:00:35 UTC (21,273 KB)
    Ivan DeAndres-Tame, Ruben Tolosana, Ruben Vera-Rodriguez, Aythami Morales, Julian Fierrez, Javier Ortega-Garcia

Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT developed by OpenAI, have already shown astonishing results, introducing quick changes in our society. This has been intensified by the release of ChatGPT which allows anyone to interact in a simple conversational way with LLMs, without any experience in the field needed. As a result, ChatGPT has been rapidly applied to many different tasks such as code- and song-writer, education, virtual assistants, etc., showing impressive results for tasks for which it was not trained (zero-shot learning).
The present study aims to explore the ability of ChatGPT, based on the recent GPT-4 multimodal LLM, for the task of face biometrics. In particular, we analyze the ability of ChatGPT to perform tasks such as face verification, soft-biometrics estimation, and explainability of the results. ChatGPT could be very valuable to further increase the explainability and transparency of automatic decisions in human scenarios. Experiments are carried out in order to evaluate the performance and robustness of ChatGPT, using popular public benchmarks and comparing the results with state-of-the-art methods in the field. The results achieved in this study show the potential of LLMs such as ChatGPT for face biometrics, especially to enhance explainability. For reproducibility reasons, we release all the code in GitHub.

------------

`[2402.08164] On Limitations of the Transformer Architecture <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08164>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:12:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Binghui Peng [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 01:52:15 UTC (19 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:12:37 UTC (19 KB)
    Binghui Peng, Srini Narayanan, Christos Papadimitriou

What are the root causes of hallucinations in large language models (LLMs)? We use Communication Complexity to prove that the Transformer layer is incapable of composing functions (e.g., identify a grandparent of a person in a genealogy) if the domains of the functions are large enough; we show through examples that this inability is already empirically present when the domains are quite small. We also point out that several mathematical tasks that are at the core of the so-called compositional tasks thought to be hard for LLMs are unlikely to be solvable by Transformers, for large enough instances and assuming that certain well accepted conjectures in the field of Computational Complexity are true.
