240410
========

`[2404.05893] Use of a Structured Knowledge Base Enhances Metadata Curation by Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05893>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 22:29:53 GMT
    Sowmya S. Sundaram, Benjamin Solomon, Avani Khatri, Anisha Laumas, Purvesh Khatri, Mark A. Musen

Metadata play a crucial role in ensuring the findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability of datasets. This paper investigates the potential of large language models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4, to improve adherence to metadata standards. We conducted experiments on 200 random data records describing human samples relating to lung cancer from the NCBI BioSample repository, evaluating GPT-4's ability to suggest edits for adherence to metadata standards. We computed the adherence accuracy of field name-field value pairs through a peer review process, and we observed a marginal average improvement in adherence to the standard data dictionary from 79% to 80% (p<0.01). We then prompted GPT-4 with domain information in the form of the textual descriptions of CEDAR templates and recorded a significant improvement to 97% from 79% (p<0.01). These results indicate that, while LLMs may not be able to correct legacy metadata to ensure satisfactory adherence to standards when unaided, they do show promise for use in automated metadata curation when integrated with a structured knowledge base.

------------

`[2404.06345] AgentsCoDriver: Large Language Model Empowered Collaborative Driving with Lifelong Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06345>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:33:16 GMT
    Senkang Hu, Zhengru Fang, Zihan Fang, Xianhao Chen, Yuguang Fang

Connected and autonomous driving is developing rapidly in recent years.
However, current autonomous driving systems, which are primarily based on data-driven approaches, exhibit deficiencies in interpretability, generalization, and continuing learning capabilities. In addition, the single-vehicle autonomous driving systems lack of the ability of collaboration and negotiation with other vehicles, which is crucial for the safety and efficiency of autonomous driving systems. In order to address these issues, we leverage large language models (LLMs) to develop a novel framework, AgentsCoDriver, to enable multiple vehicles to conduct collaborative driving.
AgentsCoDriver consists of five modules: observation module, reasoning engine, cognitive memory module, reinforcement reflection module, and communication module. It can accumulate knowledge, lessons, and experiences over time by continuously interacting with the environment, thereby making itself capable of lifelong learning. In addition, by leveraging the communication module, different agents can exchange information and realize negotiation and collaboration in complex traffic environments. Extensive experiments are conducted and show the superiority of AgentsCoDriver.

------------

`[2404.06370] Enhancing Decision Analysis with a Large Language Model: pyDecision a Comprehensive Library of MCDA Methods in Python <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06370>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:06:25 GMT
    Valdecy Pereira, Marcio Pereira Basilio, Carlos Henrique Tarjano SantosCarlos Henrique Tarjano Santos

Purpose: Multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) has become increasingly essential for decision-making in complex environments. In response to this need, the pyDecision library, implemented in Python and available at https://bit.ly/3tLFGtH, has been developed to provide a comprehensive and accessible collection of MCDA methods. Methods: The pyDecision offers 70 MCDA methods, including AHP, TOPSIS, and the PROMETHEE and ELECTRE families. Beyond offering a vast range of techniques, the library provides visualization tools for more intuitive results interpretation. In addition to these features, pyDecision has integrated ChatGPT, an advanced Large Language Model, where decision-makers can use ChatGPT to discuss and compare the outcomes of different methods, providing a more interactive and intuitive understanding of the solutions. Findings: Large Language Models are undeniably potent but can sometimes be a double-edged sword. Its answers may be misleading without rigorous verification of its outputs, especially for researchers lacking deep domain expertise. It's imperative to approach its insights with a discerning eye and a solid foundation in the relevant field. Originality: With the integration of MCDA methods and ChatGPT, pyDecision is a significant contribution to the scientific community, as it is an invaluable resource for researchers, practitioners, and decision-makers navigating complex decision-making problems and seeking the most appropriate solutions based on MCDA methods.

------------

`[2404.06405] Wu's Method can Boost Symbolic AI to Rival Silver Medalists and AlphaGeometry to Outperform Gold Medalists at IMO Geometry <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06405>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:54:00 GMT
    Shiven Sinha, Ameya Prabhu, Ponnurangam Kumaraguru, Siddharth Bhat, Matthias Bethge

Proving geometric theorems constitutes a hallmark of visual reasoning combining both intuitive and logical skills. Therefore, automated theorem proving of Olympiad-level geometry problems is considered a notable milestone in human-level automated reasoning. The introduction of AlphaGeometry, a neuro-symbolic model trained with 100 million synthetic samples, marked a major breakthrough. It solved 25 of 30 International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) problems whereas the reported baseline based on Wu's method solved only ten. In this note, we revisit the IMO-AG-30 Challenge introduced with AlphaGeometry, and find that Wu's method is surprisingly strong. Wu's method alone can solve 15 problems, and some of them are not solved by any of the other methods. This leads to two key findings: (i) Combining Wu's method with the classic synthetic methods of deductive databases and angle, ratio, and distance chasing solves 21 out of 30 methods by just using a CPU-only laptop with a time limit of 5 minutes per problem. Essentially, this classic method solves just 4 problems less than AlphaGeometry and establishes the first fully symbolic baseline strong enough to rival the performance of an IMO silver medalist. (ii) Wu's method even solves 2 of the 5 problems that AlphaGeometry failed to solve.
Thus, by combining AlphaGeometry with Wu's method we set a new state-of-the-art for automated theorem proving on IMO-AG-30, solving 27 out of 30 problems, the first AI method which outperforms an IMO gold medalist.

------------

`[2404.06411] AgentQuest: A Modular Benchmark Framework to Measure Progress and Improve LLM Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06411>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 16:01:24 GMT
    Luca Gioacchini, Giuseppe Siracusano, Davide Sanvito, Kiril Gashteovski, David Friede, Roberto Bifulco, Carolin Lawrence

The advances made by Large Language Models (LLMs) have led to the pursuit of LLM agents that can solve intricate, multi-step reasoning tasks. As with any research pursuit, benchmarking and evaluation are key corner stones to efficient and reliable progress. However, existing benchmarks are often narrow and simply compute overall task success. To face these issues, we propose AgentQuest -- a framework where (i) both benchmarks and metrics are modular and easily extensible through well documented and easy-to-use APIs; (ii) we offer two new evaluation metrics that can reliably track LLM agent progress while solving a task. We exemplify the utility of the metrics on two use cases wherein we identify common failure points and refine the agent architecture to obtain a significant performance increase. Together with the research community, we hope to extend AgentQuest further and therefore we make it available under https://github.com/nec-research/agentquest.

------------

`[2404.05829] SambaLingo: Teaching Large Language Models New Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05829>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 19:48:36 GMT
    Zoltan Csaki, Bo Li, Jonathan Li, Qiantong Xu, Pian Pawakapan, Leon Zhang, Yun Du, Hengyu Zhao, Changran Hu, Urmish Thakker

Despite the widespread availability of LLMs, there remains a substantial gap in their capabilities and availability across diverse languages. One approach to address these issues has been to take an existing pre-trained LLM and continue to train it on new languages. While prior works have experimented with language adaptation, many questions around best practices and methodology have not been covered. In this paper, we present a comprehensive investigation into the adaptation of LLMs to new languages. Our study covers the key components in this process, including vocabulary extension, direct preference optimization and the data scarcity problem for human alignment in low-resource languages. We scale these experiments across 9 languages and 2 parameter scales (7B and 70B).
We compare our models against Llama 2, Aya-101, XGLM, BLOOM and existing language experts, outperforming all prior published baselines. Additionally, all evaluation code and checkpoints are made public to facilitate future research.

------------

`[2404.05866] GeniL: A Multilingual Dataset on Generalizing Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05866>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 20:58:06 GMT
    Aida Mostafazadeh Davani, Sagar Gubbi, Sunipa Dev, Shachi Dave, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran

LLMs are increasingly transforming our digital ecosystem, but they often inherit societal biases learned from their training data, for instance stereotypes associating certain attributes with specific identity groups. While whether and how these biases are mitigated may depend on the specific use cases, being able to effectively detect instances of stereotype perpetuation is a crucial first step. Current methods to assess presence of stereotypes in generated language rely on simple template or co-occurrence based measures, without accounting for the variety of sentential contexts they manifest in. We argue that understanding the sentential context is crucial for detecting instances of generalization. We distinguish two types of generalizations: (1) language that merely mentions the presence of a generalization ("people think the French are very rude"), and (2) language that reinforces such a generalization ("as French they must be rude"), from non-generalizing context ("My French friends think I am rude"). For meaningful stereotype evaluations, we need to reliably distinguish such instances of generalizations. We introduce the new task of detecting generalization in language, and build GeniL, a multilingual dataset of over 50K sentences from 9 languages (English, Arabic, Bengali, Spanish, French, Hindi, Indonesian, Malay, and Portuguese) annotated for instances of generalizations. We demonstrate that the likelihood of a co-occurrence being an instance of generalization is usually low, and varies across different languages, identity groups, and attributes. We build classifiers to detect generalization in language with an overall PR-AUC of 58.7, with varying degrees of performance across languages. Our research provides data and tools to enable a nuanced understanding of stereotype perpetuation, a crucial step towards more inclusive and responsible language technologies.

------------

`[2404.05875] CodecLM: Aligning Language Models with Tailored Synthetic Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05875>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 21:15:36 GMT
    Zifeng Wang, Chun-Liang Li, Vincent Perot, Long T. Le, Jin Miao, Zizhao Zhang, Chen-Yu Lee, Tomas Pfister

Instruction tuning has emerged as the key in aligning large language models (LLMs) with specific task instructions, thereby mitigating the discrepancy between the next-token prediction objective and users' actual goals. To reduce the labor and time cost to collect or annotate data by humans, researchers start to explore the use of LLMs to generate instruction-aligned synthetic data. Recent works focus on generating diverse instructions and applying LLM to increase instruction complexity, often neglecting downstream use cases. It remains unclear how to tailor high-quality data to elicit better instruction-following abilities in different target instruction distributions and LLMs. To this end, we introduce CodecLM, a general framework for adaptively generating high-quality synthetic data for LLM alignment with different downstream instruction distributions and LLMs. Drawing on the Encode-Decode principles, we use LLMs as codecs to guide the data generation process. We first encode seed instructions into metadata, which are concise keywords generated on-the-fly to capture the target instruction distribution, and then decode metadata to create tailored instructions. We also introduce Self-Rubrics and Contrastive Filtering during decoding to tailor data-efficient samples.
Extensive experiments on four open-domain instruction following benchmarks validate the effectiveness of CodecLM over the current state-of-the-arts.

------------

`[2404.05880] Eraser: Jailbreaking Defense in Large Language Models via Unlearning Harmful Knowledge <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05880>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 21:26:22 GMT
    Weikai Lu, Ziqian Zeng, Jianwei Wang, Zhengdong Lu, Zelin Chen, Huiping Zhuang, Cen Chen

Jailbreaking attacks can enable Large Language Models (LLMs) to bypass the safeguard and generate harmful content. Existing jailbreaking defense methods have failed to address the fundamental issue that harmful knowledge resides within the model, leading to potential jailbreak risks for LLMs. In this paper, we propose a novel defense method called Eraser, which mainly includes three goals: unlearning harmful knowledge, retaining general knowledge, and maintaining safety alignment. The intuition is that if an LLM forgets the specific knowledge required to answer a harmful question, it will no longer have the ability to answer harmful questions. The training of Erase does not actually require the model's own harmful knowledge, and it can benefit from unlearning general answers related to harmful queries, which means it does not need assistance from the red team. The experimental results show that Eraser can significantly reduce the jailbreaking success rate for various attacks without compromising the general capabilities of the model.

------------

`[2404.05902] WILBUR: Adaptive In-Context Learning for Robust and Accurate Web Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05902>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 23:10:47 GMT
    Michael Lutz, Arth Bohra, Manvel Saroyan, Artem Harutyunyan, Giovanni Campagna

In the realm of web agent research, achieving both generalization and accuracy remains a challenging problem. Due to high variance in website structure, existing approaches often fail. Moreover, existing fine-tuning and in-context learning techniques fail to generalize across multiple websites. We introduce Wilbur, an approach that uses a differentiable ranking model and a novel instruction synthesis technique to optimally populate a black-box large language model's prompt with task demonstrations from previous runs. To maximize end-to-end success rates, we also propose an intelligent backtracking mechanism that learns and recovers from its mistakes. Finally, we show that our ranking model can be trained on data from a generative auto-curriculum which samples representative goals from an LLM, runs the agent, and automatically evaluates it, with no manual annotation. Wilbur achieves state-of-the-art results on the WebVoyager benchmark, beating text-only models by 8% overall, and up to 36% on certain websites. On the same benchmark, Wilbur is within 5% of a strong multi-modal model despite only receiving textual inputs, and further analysis reveals a substantial number of failures are due to engineering challenges of operating the web.

------------

`[2404.05904] The Hallucinations Leaderboard -- An Open Effort to Measure Hallucinations in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05904>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 23:16:22 GMT
    Giwon Hong, Aryo Pradipta Gema, Rohit Saxena, Xiaotang Du, Ping Nie, Yu Zhao, Laura Perez-Beltrachini, Max Ryabinin, Xuanli He, Pasquale Minervini

Large Language Models (LLMs) have transformed the Natural Language Processing (NLP) landscape with their remarkable ability to understand and generate human-like text. However, these models are prone to ``hallucinations'' -- outputs that do not align with factual reality or the input context. This paper introduces the Hallucinations Leaderboard, an open initiative to quantitatively measure and compare the tendency of each model to produce hallucinations. The leaderboard uses a comprehensive set of benchmarks focusing on different aspects of hallucinations, such as factuality and faithfulness, across various tasks, including question-answering, summarisation, and reading comprehension.
Our analysis provides insights into the performance of different models, guiding researchers and practitioners in choosing the most reliable models for their applications.

------------

`[2404.05955] VisualWebBench: How Far Have Multimodal LLMs Evolved in Web Page Understanding and Grounding? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05955>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 02:29:39 GMT
    Junpeng Liu, Yifan Song, Bill Yuchen Lin, Wai Lam, Graham Neubig, Yuanzhi Li, and Xiang Yue

Multimodal Large Language models (MLLMs) have shown promise in web-related tasks, but evaluating their performance in the web domain remains a challenge due to the lack of comprehensive benchmarks. Existing benchmarks are either designed for general multimodal tasks, failing to capture the unique characteristics of web pages, or focus on end-to-end web agent tasks, unable to measure fine-grained abilities such as OCR, understanding, and grounding. In this paper, we introduce \bench{}, a multimodal benchmark designed to assess the capabilities of MLLMs across a variety of web tasks. \bench{} consists of seven tasks, and comprises 1.5K human-curated instances from 139 real websites, covering 87 sub-domains. We evaluate 14 open-source MLLMs, Gemini Pro, Claude-3 series, and GPT-4V(ision) on \bench{}, revealing significant challenges and performance gaps. Further analysis highlights the limitations of current MLLMs, including inadequate grounding in text-rich environments and subpar performance with low-resolution image inputs. We believe \bench{} will serve as a valuable resource for the research community and contribute to the creation of more powerful and versatile MLLMs for web-related applications.

------------

`[2404.05961] LLM2Vec: Large Language Models Are Secretly Powerful Text Encoders <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05961>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 02:51:05 GMT
    Parishad BehnamGhader, Vaibhav Adlakha, Marius Mosbach, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Nicolas Chapados, Siva Reddy

Large decoder-only language models (LLMs) are the state-of-the-art models on most of today's NLP tasks and benchmarks. Yet, the community is only slowly adopting these models for text embedding tasks, which require rich contextualized representations. In this work, we introduce LLM2Vec, a simple unsupervised approach that can transform any decoder-only LLM into a strong text encoder. LLM2Vec consists of three simple steps: 1) enabling bidirectional attention, 2) masked next token prediction, and 3) unsupervised contrastive learning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LLM2Vec by applying it to 3 popular LLMs ranging from 1.3B to 7B parameters and evaluate the transformed models on English word- and sequence-level tasks. We outperform encoder-only models by a large margin on word-level tasks and reach a new unsupervised state-of-the-art performance on the Massive Text Embeddings Benchmark (MTEB).
Moreover, when combining LLM2Vec with supervised contrastive learning, we achieve state-of-the-art performance on MTEB among models that train only on publicly available data. Our strong empirical results and extensive analysis demonstrate that LLMs can be effectively transformed into universal text encoders in a parameter-efficient manner without the need for expensive adaptation or synthetic GPT-4 generated data.

------------

`[2404.05966] THOUGHTSCULPT: Reasoning with Intermediate Revision and Search <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05966>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 02:53:14 GMT
    Yizhou Chi, Kevin Yang, Dan Klein

We present THOUGHTSCULPT, a general reasoning and search method for tasks with outputs that can be decomposed into components. THOUGHTSCULPT explores a search tree of potential solutions using Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), building solutions one action at a time and evaluating according to any domain-specific heuristic, which in practice is often simply an LLM evaluator.
Critically, our action space includes revision actions: THOUGHTSCULPT may choose to revise part of its previous output rather than continuing to build the rest of its output. Empirically, THOUGHTSCULPT outperforms state-of-the-art reasoning methods across three challenging tasks: Story Outline Improvement (up to +30% interestingness), Mini-Crosswords Solving (up to +16% word success rate), and Constrained Generation (up to +10% concept coverage).

------------

`[2404.05970] Optimization Methods for Personalizing Large Language Models through Retrieval Augmentation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05970>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 02:58:05 GMT
    Alireza Salemi, Surya Kallumadi, Hamed Zamani

This paper studies retrieval-augmented approaches for personalizing large language models (LLMs), which potentially have a substantial impact on various applications and domains. We propose the first attempt to optimize the retrieval models that deliver a limited number of personal documents to large language models for the purpose of personalized generation. We develop two optimization algorithms that solicit feedback from the downstream personalized generation tasks for retrieval optimization--one based on reinforcement learning whose reward function is defined using any arbitrary metric for personalized generation and another based on knowledge distillation from the downstream LLM to the retrieval model. This paper also introduces a pre- and post-generation retriever selection model that decides what retriever to choose for each LLM input. Extensive experiments on diverse tasks from the language model personalization (LaMP) benchmark reveal statistically significant improvements in six out of seven datasets.

------------

`[2404.05989] Event-enhanced Retrieval in Real-time Search <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05989>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 03:47:48 GMT
    Yanan Zhang, Xiaoling Bai, Tianhua Zhou

The embedding-based retrieval (EBR) approach is widely used in mainstream search engine retrieval systems and is crucial in recent retrieval-augmented methods for eliminating LLM illusions. However, existing EBR models often face the "semantic drift" problem and insufficient focus on key information, leading to a low adoption rate of retrieval results in subsequent steps. This issue is especially noticeable in real-time search scenarios, where the various expressions of popular events on the Internet make real-time retrieval heavily reliant on crucial event information. To tackle this problem, this paper proposes a novel approach called EER, which enhances real-time retrieval performance by improving the dual-encoder model of traditional EBR. We incorporate contrastive learning to accompany pairwise learning for encoder optimization. Furthermore, to strengthen the focus on critical event information in events, we include a decoder module after the document encoder, introduce a generative event triplet extraction scheme based on prompt-tuning, and correlate the events with query encoder optimization through comparative learning. This decoder module can be removed during inference. Extensive experiments demonstrate that EER can significantly improve the real-time search retrieval performance. We believe that this approach will provide new perspectives in the field of information retrieval. The codes and dataset are available at https://github.com/open-event-hub/Event-enhanced_Retrieval .

------------

`[2404.06001] Privacy Preserving Prompt Engineering: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06001>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 04:11:25 GMT
    Kennedy Edemacu, Xintao Wu

Pre-trained language models (PLMs) have demonstrated significant proficiency in solving a wide range of general natural language processing (NLP) tasks.
Researchers have observed a direct correlation between the performance of these models and their sizes. As a result, the sizes of these models have notably expanded in recent years, persuading researchers to adopt the term large language models (LLMs) to characterize the larger-sized PLMs. The increased size is accompanied by a distinct capability known as in-context learning (ICL), which represents a specialized form of prompting. This enables the utilization of LLMs for specific downstream tasks by presenting them with demonstration examples while keeping the model parameters frozen. Although interesting, privacy concerns have become a major obstacle in its widespread usage. Multiple studies have examined the privacy risks linked to ICL and prompting in general, and have devised techniques to alleviate these risks.
Thus, there is a necessity to organize these mitigation techniques for the benefit of the community. This survey provides a systematic overview of the privacy protection methods employed during ICL and prompting in general. We review, analyze, and compare different methods under this paradigm.
Furthermore, we provide a summary of the resources accessible for the development of these frameworks. Finally, we discuss the limitations of these frameworks and offer a detailed examination of the promising areas that necessitate further exploration.

------------

`[2404.06003] FreeEval: A Modular Framework for Trustworthy and Efficient Evaluation of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06003>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 04:17:51 GMT
    Zhuohao Yu, Chang Gao, Wenjin Yao, Yidong Wang, Zhengran Zeng, Wei Ye, Jindong Wang, Yue Zhang, Shikun Zhang

The rapid development of large language model (LLM) evaluation methodologies and datasets has led to a profound challenge: integrating state-of-the-art evaluation techniques cost-effectively while ensuring reliability, reproducibility, and efficiency. Currently, there is a notable absence of a unified and adaptable framework that seamlessly integrates various evaluation approaches. Moreover, the reliability of evaluation findings is often questionable due to potential data contamination, with the evaluation efficiency commonly overlooked when facing the substantial costs associated with LLM inference. In response to these challenges, we introduce FreeEval, a modular and scalable framework crafted to enable trustworthy and efficient automatic evaluations of LLMs. Firstly, FreeEval's unified abstractions simplify the integration and improve the transparency of diverse evaluation methodologies, encompassing dynamic evaluation that demand sophisticated LLM interactions. Secondly, the framework integrates meta-evaluation techniques like human evaluation and data contamination detection, which, along with dynamic evaluation modules in the platform, enhance the fairness of the evaluation outcomes. Lastly, FreeEval is designed with a high-performance infrastructure, including distributed computation and caching strategies, enabling extensive evaluations across multi-node, multi-GPU clusters for open-source and proprietary LLMs.

------------

`[2404.06138] Cendol: Open Instruction-tuned Generative Large Language Models for Indonesian Languages <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06138>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 09:04:30 GMT
    Samuel Cahyawijaya, Holy Lovenia, Fajri Koto, Rifki Afina Putri, Emmanuel Dave, Jhonson Lee, Nuur Shadieq, Wawan Cenggoro, Salsabil Maulana Akbar, Muhammad Ihza Mahendra, Dea Annisayanti Putri, Bryan Wilie, Genta Indra Winata, Alham Fikri Aji, Ayu Purwarianti, Pascale Fung

Large language models (LLMs) show remarkable human-like capability in various domains and languages. However, a notable quality gap arises in low-resource languages, e.g., Indonesian indigenous languages, rendering them ineffective and inefficient in such linguistic contexts. To bridge this quality gap, we introduce Cendol, a collection of Indonesian LLMs encompassing both decoder-only and encoder-decoder architectures across a range of model sizes.
We highlight Cendol's effectiveness across a diverse array of tasks, attaining 20% improvement, and demonstrate its capability to generalize to unseen tasks and indigenous languages of Indonesia. Furthermore, Cendol models showcase improved human favorability despite their limitations in capturing indigenous knowledge and cultural values in Indonesia. In addition, we discuss the shortcomings of parameter-efficient tunings, such as LoRA, for language adaptation. Alternatively, we propose the usage of vocabulary adaptation to enhance efficiency. Lastly, we evaluate the safety of Cendol and showcase that safety in pre-training in one language such as English is transferable to low-resource languages, such as Indonesian, even without RLHF and safety fine-tuning.

------------

`[2404.06162] Characterizing Multimodal Long-form Summarization: A Case Study on Financial Reports <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06162>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 09:34:25 GMT
    Tianyu Cao, Natraj Raman, Danial Dervovic and Chenhao Tan

As large language models (LLMs) expand the power of natural language processing to handle long inputs, rigorous and systematic analyses are necessary to understand their abilities and behavior. A salient application is summarization, due to its ubiquity and controversy (e.g., researchers have declared the death of summarization). In this paper, we use financial report summarization as a case study because financial reports not only are long but also use numbers and tables extensively. We propose a computational framework for characterizing multimodal long-form summarization and investigate the behavior of Claude 2.0/2.1, GPT-4/3.5, and Command. We find that GPT-3.5 and Command fail to perform this summarization task meaningfully. For Claude 2 and GPT-4, we analyze the extractiveness of the summary and identify a position bias in LLMs. This position bias disappears after shuffling the input for Claude, which suggests that Claude has the ability to recognize important information. We also conduct a comprehensive investigation on the use of numeric data in LLM-generated summaries and offer a taxonomy of numeric hallucination. We employ prompt engineering to improve GPT-4's use of numbers with limited success. Overall, our analyses highlight the strong capability of Claude 2 in handling long multimodal inputs compared to GPT-4.

------------

`[2404.06186] Clue-Instruct: Text-Based Clue Generation for Educational Crossword Puzzles <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06186>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:12:34 GMT
    Andrea Zugarini, Kamyar Zeinalipour, Surya Sai Kadali, Marco Maggini, Marco Gori, Leonardo Rigutini

Crossword puzzles are popular linguistic games often used as tools to engage students in learning. Educational crosswords are characterized by less cryptic and more factual clues that distinguish them from traditional crossword puzzles. Despite there exist several publicly available clue-answer pair databases for traditional crosswords, educational clue-answer pairs datasets are missing. In this article, we propose a methodology to build educational clue generation datasets that can be used to instruct Large Language Models (LLMs). By gathering from Wikipedia pages informative content associated with relevant keywords, we use Large Language Models to automatically generate pedagogical clues related to the given input keyword and its context. With such an approach, we created clue-instruct, a dataset containing 44,075 unique examples with text-keyword pairs associated with three distinct crossword clues. We used clue-instruct to instruct different LLMs to generate educational clues from a given input content and keyword. Both human and automatic evaluations confirmed the quality of the generated clues, thus validating the effectiveness of our approach.

------------

`[2404.06217] VI-OOD: A Unified Representation Learning Framework for Textual Out-of-distribution Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06217>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:10:00 GMT
    Li-Ming Zhan, Bo Liu, Xiao-Ming Wu

Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection plays a crucial role in ensuring the safety and reliability of deep neural networks in various applications. While there has been a growing focus on OOD detection in visual data, the field of textual OOD detection has received less attention. Only a few attempts have been made to directly apply general OOD detection methods to natural language processing (NLP) tasks, without adequately considering the characteristics of textual data. In this paper, we delve into textual OOD detection with Transformers. We first identify a key problem prevalent in existing OOD detection methods: the biased representation learned through the maximization of the conditional likelihood $p(y\mid x)$ can potentially result in subpar performance. We then propose a novel variational inference framework for OOD detection (VI-OOD), which maximizes the likelihood of the joint distribution $p(x, y)$ instead of $p(y\mid x)$. VI-OOD is tailored for textual OOD detection by efficiently exploiting the representations of pre-trained Transformers.
Through comprehensive experiments on various text classification tasks, VI-OOD demonstrates its effectiveness and wide applicability. Our code has been released at \url{https://github.com/liam0949/LLM-OOD}.

------------

`[2404.06224] Low-Cost Generation and Evaluation of Dictionary Example Sentences <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06224>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:26:59 GMT
    Bill Cai, Clarence Boon Liang Ng, Daniel Tan, Shelvia Hotama

Dictionary example sentences play an important role in illustrating word definitions and usage, but manually creating quality sentences is challenging.
Prior works have demonstrated that language models can be trained to generate example sentences. However, they relied on costly customized models and word sense datasets for generation and evaluation of their work. Rapid advancements in foundational models present the opportunity to create low-cost, zero-shot methods for the generation and evaluation of dictionary example sentences. We introduce a new automatic evaluation metric called OxfordEval that measures the win-rate of generated sentences against existing Oxford Dictionary sentences.
OxfordEval shows high alignment with human judgments, enabling large-scale automated quality evaluation. We experiment with various LLMs and configurations to generate dictionary sentences across word classes. We complement this with a novel approach of using masked language models to identify and select sentences that best exemplify word meaning. The eventual model, FM-MLM, achieves over 85.1% win rate against Oxford baseline sentences according to OxfordEval, compared to 39.8% win rate for prior model-generated sentences.

------------

`[2404.06283] LLMs' Reading Comprehension Is Affected by Parametric Knowledge and Struggles with Hypothetical Statements <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06283>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 13:08:56 GMT
    Victoria Basmov, Yoav Goldberg, Reut Tsarfaty

The task of reading comprehension (RC), often implemented as context-based question answering (QA), provides a primary means to assess language models' natural language understanding (NLU) capabilities. Yet, when applied to large language models (LLMs) with extensive built-in world knowledge, this method can be deceptive. If the context aligns with the LLMs' internal knowledge, it is hard to discern whether the models' answers stem from context comprehension or from LLMs' internal information. Conversely, using data that conflicts with the models' knowledge creates erroneous trends which distort the results. To address this issue, we suggest to use RC on imaginary data, based on fictitious facts and entities. This task is entirely independent of the models' world knowledge, enabling us to evaluate LLMs' linguistic abilities without the interference of parametric knowledge. Testing ChatGPT, GPT-4, LLaMA 2 and Mixtral on such imaginary data, we uncover a class of linguistic phenomena posing a challenge to current LLMs, involving thinking in terms of alternative, hypothetical scenarios. While all the models handle simple affirmative and negative contexts with high accuracy, they are much more prone to error when dealing with modal and conditional contexts. Crucially, these phenomena also trigger the LLMs' vulnerability to knowledge-conflicts again. In particular, while some models prove virtually unaffected by knowledge conflicts in affirmative and negative contexts, when faced with more semantically involved modal and conditional environments, they often fail to separate the text from their internal knowledge.

------------

`[2404.06347] RAR-b: Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06347>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:34:48 GMT
    Chenghao Xiao, G Thomas Hudson, Noura Al Moubayed

Semantic textual similartiy (STS) and information retrieval tasks (IR) tasks have been the two major avenues to record the progress of embedding models in the past few years. Under the emerging Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) paradigm, we envision the need to evaluate next-level language understanding abilities of embedding models, and take a conscious look at the reasoning abilities stored in them. Addressing this, we pose the question: Can retrievers solve reasoning problems? By transforming reasoning tasks into retrieval tasks, we find that without specifically trained for reasoning-level language understanding, current state-of-the-art retriever models may still be far from being competent for playing the role of assisting LLMs, especially in reasoning-intensive tasks. Moreover, albeit trained to be aware of instructions, instruction-aware IR models are often better off without instructions in inference time for reasoning tasks, posing an overlooked retriever-LLM behavioral gap for the research community to align. However, recent decoder-based embedding models show great promise in narrowing the gap, highlighting the pathway for embedding models to achieve reasoning-level language understanding. We also show that, although current off-the-shelf re-ranker models fail on these tasks, injecting reasoning abilities into them through fine-tuning still appears easier than doing so to bi-encoders, and we are able to achieve state-of-the-art performance across all tasks by fine-tuning a reranking model. We release Reasoning as Retrieval Benchmark (RAR-b), a holistic suite of tasks and settings to evaluate the reasoning abilities stored in retriever models. RAR-b is available at https://github.com/gowitheflow-1998/RAR-b.

------------

`[2404.06390] Latent Distance Guided Alignment Training for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06390>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:33:09 GMT
    Haotian Luo, Wenhao Zheng, Huaxiu Yao

Ensuring alignment with human preferences is a crucial characteristic of large language models (LLMs). Presently, the primary alignment methods, RLHF and DPO, require extensive human annotation, which is expensive despite their efficacy. The significant expenses associated with current alignment techniques motivate researchers to investigate the development of annotation-free alignment training methods. In pursuit of improved alignment without relying on external annotation, we introduce Latent Distance Guided Alignment Training (LD-Align). This approach seeks to align the model with a high-quality supervised fine-tune dataset using guidance from a latent space. The latent space is generated through sample reconstruction, akin to auto-encoding.
Consequently, we utilize the distance between sample pairs in the latent space to guide DPO-based alignment training. Extensive experimentation and evaluation show the efficacy of our proposed method in achieving notable alignment.

------------

`[2404.06395] MiniCPM: Unveiling the Potential of Small Language Models with Scalable Training Strategies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06395>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:36:50 GMT
    Shengding Hu, Yuge Tu, Xu Han, Chaoqun He, Ganqu Cui, Xiang Long, Zhi Zheng, Yewei Fang, Yuxiang Huang, Weilin Zhao, Xinrong Zhang, Zheng Leng Thai, Kaihuo Zhang, Chongyi Wang, Yuan Yao, Chenyang Zhao, Jie Zhou, Jie Cai, Zhongwu Zhai, Ning Ding, Chao Jia, Guoyang Zeng, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun

The burgeoning interest in developing Large Language Models (LLMs) with up to trillion parameters has been met with concerns regarding resource efficiency and practical expense, particularly given the immense cost of experimentation.
This scenario underscores the importance of exploring the potential of Small Language Models (SLMs) as a resource-efficient alternative. In this context, we introduce MiniCPM, specifically the 1.2B and 2.4B non-embedding parameter variants, not only excel in their respective categories but also demonstrate capabilities on par with 7B-13B LLMs. While focusing on SLMs, our approach exhibits scalability in both model and data dimensions for future LLM research.
Regarding model scaling, we employ extensive model wind tunnel experiments for stable and optimal scaling. For data scaling, we introduce a Warmup-Stable-Decay (WSD) learning rate scheduler (LRS), conducive to continuous training and domain adaptation. We present an in-depth analysis of the intriguing training dynamics that occurred in the WSD LRS. With WSD LRS, we are now able to efficiently study data-model scaling law without extensive retraining experiments on both axes of model and data, from which we derive the much higher compute optimal data-model ratio than Chinchilla Optimal.
Additionally, we introduce MiniCPM family, including MiniCPM-DPO, MiniCPM-MoE and MiniCPM-128K, whose excellent performance further cementing MiniCPM's foundation in diverse SLM applications. MiniCPM models are available publicly at https://github.com/OpenBMB/MiniCPM .

------------

`[2404.06407] Take a Look at it! Rethinking How to Evaluate Language Model Jailbreak <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06407>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:54:16 GMT
    Hongyu Cai, Arjun Arunasalam, Leo Y. Lin, Antonio Bianchi, and Z. Berkay Celik

Large language models (LLMs) have become increasingly integrated with various applications. To ensure that LLMs do not generate unsafe responses, they are aligned with safeguards that specify what content is restricted. However, such alignment can be bypassed to produce prohibited content using a technique commonly referred to as jailbreak. Different systems have been proposed to perform the jailbreak automatically. These systems rely on evaluation methods to determine whether a jailbreak attempt is successful. However, our analysis reveals that current jailbreak evaluation methods have two limitations. (1) Their objectives lack clarity and do not align with the goal of identifying unsafe responses. (2) They oversimplify the jailbreak result as a binary outcome, successful or not.
In this paper, we propose three metrics, safeguard violation, informativeness, and relative truthfulness, to evaluate language model jailbreak. Additionally, we demonstrate how these metrics correlate with the goal of different malicious actors. To compute these metrics, we introduce a multifaceted approach that extends the natural language generation evaluation method after preprocessing the response. We evaluate our metrics on a benchmark dataset produced from three malicious intent datasets and three jailbreak systems. The benchmark dataset is labeled by three annotators. We compare our multifaceted approach with three existing jailbreak evaluation methods.
Experiments demonstrate that our multifaceted evaluation outperforms existing methods, with F1 scores improving on average by 17% compared to existing baselines. Our findings motivate the need to move away from the binary view of the jailbreak problem and incorporate a more comprehensive evaluation to ensure the safety of the language model.

------------

`[2404.06479] Text-Based Reasoning About Vector Graphics <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06479>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 17:30:18 GMT
    Zhenhailong Wang, Joy Hsu, Xingyao Wang, Kuan-Hao Huang, Manling Li, Jiajun Wu, Heng Ji

While large multimodal models excel in broad vision-language benchmarks, they often struggle with tasks requiring precise perception of low-level visual details, such as comparing line lengths or solving simple mazes. In particular, this failure mode persists in question-answering tasks about vector graphics -- images composed purely of 2D objects and shapes. To address this challenge, we propose the Visually Descriptive Language Model (VDLM), which performs text-based reasoning about vector graphics. VDLM leverages Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) for a more precise visual description and first uses an off-the-shelf raster-to-SVG algorithm for encoding. Since existing language models cannot understand raw SVGs in a zero-shot setting, VDLM then bridges SVG with pretrained language models through a newly introduced intermediate symbolic representation, Primal Visual Description (PVD), comprising primitive attributes (e.g., shape, position, measurement) with their corresponding predicted values. PVD is task-agnostic and represents visual primitives that are universal across all vector graphics. It can be learned with procedurally generated (SVG, PVD) pairs and also enables the direct use of LLMs for generalization to complex reasoning tasks. By casting an image to a text-based representation, we can leverage the power of language models to learn alignment from SVG to visual primitives and generalize to unseen question-answering tasks. Empirical results show that VDLM achieves stronger zero-shot performance compared to state-of-the-art LMMs, such as GPT-4V, in various low-level multimodal perception and reasoning tasks on vector graphics. We additionally present extensive analyses on VDLM's performance, demonstrating that our framework offers better interpretability due to its disentangled perception and reasoning processes. Project page: https://mikewangwzhl.github.io/VDLM/

------------

`[2404.06480] Ada-LEval: Evaluating long-context LLMs with length-adaptable benchmarks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06480>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 17:30:48 GMT
    Chonghua Wang, Haodong Duan, Songyang Zhang, Dahua Lin, Kai Chen

Recently, the large language model (LLM) community has shown increasing interest in enhancing LLMs' capability to handle extremely long documents. As various long-text techniques and model architectures emerge, the precise and detailed evaluation of models' long-text capabilities has become increasingly important. Existing long-text evaluation benchmarks, such as L-Eval and LongBench, construct long-text test sets based on open-source datasets, focusing mainly on QA and summarization tasks. These datasets include test samples of varying lengths (from 2k to 32k+) entangled together, making it challenging to assess model capabilities across different length ranges.
Moreover, they do not cover the ultralong settings (100k+ tokens) that the latest LLMs claim to achieve. In this paper, we introduce Ada-LEval, a length-adaptable benchmark for evaluating the long-context understanding of LLMs. Ada-LEval includes two challenging subsets, TSort and BestAnswer, which enable a more reliable evaluation of LLMs' long context capabilities. These benchmarks support intricate manipulation of the length of test cases, and can easily produce text samples up to 128k tokens. We evaluate 4 state-of-the-art closed-source API models and 6 open-source models with Ada-LEval. The evaluation results demonstrate the limitations of current LLMs, especially in ultra-long-context settings. Our code is available at https://github.com/open-compass/Ada-LEval.

------------

`[2404.06488] Pitfalls of Conversational LLMs on News Debiasing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06488>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 17:42:59 GMT
    Ipek Baris Schlicht and Defne Altiok and Maryanne Taouk and Lucie Flek

This paper addresses debiasing in news editing and evaluates the effectiveness of conversational Large Language Models in this task. We designed an evaluation checklist tailored to news editors' perspectives, obtained generated texts from three popular conversational models using a subset of a publicly available dataset in media bias, and evaluated the texts according to the designed checklist. Furthermore, we examined the models as evaluator for checking the quality of debiased model outputs. Our findings indicate that none of the LLMs are perfect in debiasing. Notably, some models, including ChatGPT, introduced unnecessary changes that may impact the author's style and create misinformation. Lastly, we show that the models do not perform as proficiently as domain experts in evaluating the quality of debiased outputs.

------------

`[2404.06503] Comparing Two Model Designs for Clinical Note Generation; Is an LLM a Useful Evaluator of Consistency? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06503>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 17:54:10 GMT
    Nathan Brake, Thomas Schaaf

Following an interaction with a patient, physicians are responsible for the submission of clinical documentation, often organized as a SOAP note. A clinical note is not simply a summary of the conversation but requires the use of appropriate medical terminology. The relevant information can then be extracted and organized according to the structure of the SOAP note. In this paper we analyze two different approaches to generate the different sections of a SOAP note based on the audio recording of the conversation, and specifically examine them in terms of note consistency. The first approach generates the sections independently, while the second method generates them all together. In this work we make use of PEGASUS-X Transformer models and observe that both methods lead to similar ROUGE values (less than 1% difference) and have no difference in terms of the Factuality metric. We perform a human evaluation to measure aspects of consistency and demonstrate that LLMs like Llama2 can be used to perform the same tasks with roughly the same agreement as the human annotators. Between the Llama2 analysis and the human reviewers we observe a Cohen Kappa inter-rater reliability of 0.79, 1.00, and 0.32 for consistency of age, gender, and body part injury, respectively. With this we demonstrate the usefulness of leveraging an LLM to measure quality indicators that can be identified by humans but are not currently captured by automatic metrics. This allows scaling evaluation to larger data sets, and we find that clinical note consistency improves by generating each new section conditioned on the output of all previously generated sections.

------------

`[2404.05741] Enhancing Inference Efficiency of Large Language Models: Investigating Optimization Strategies and Architectural Innovations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05741>`__

::

    Tue, 2 Apr 2024 19:53:54 GMT
    Georgy Tyukin

Large Language Models are growing in size, and we expect them to continue to do so, as larger models train quicker. However, this increase in size will severely impact inference costs. Therefore model compression is important, to retain the performance of larger models, but with a reduced cost of running them. In this thesis we explore the methods of model compression, and we empirically demonstrate that the simple method of skipping latter attention sublayers in Transformer LLMs is an effective method of model compression, as these layers prove to be redundant, whilst also being incredibly computationally expensive. We observed a 21% speed increase in one-token generation for Llama 2 7B, whilst surprisingly and unexpectedly improving performance over several common benchmarks.

------------

`[2404.05868] Negative Preference Optimization: From Catastrophic Collapse to Effective Unlearning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05868>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 21:05:42 GMT
    Ruiqi Zhang, Licong Lin, Yu Bai, Song Mei

Large Language Models (LLMs) often memorize sensitive, private, or copyrighted data during pre-training. LLM unlearning aims to eliminate the influence of undesirable data from the pre-trained model while preserving the model's utilities on other tasks. Several practical methods have recently been proposed for LLM unlearning, mostly based on gradient ascent (GA) on the loss of undesirable data. However, on certain unlearning tasks, these methods either fail to effectively unlearn the target data or suffer from catastrophic collapse -- a drastic degradation of the model's utilities.
In this paper, we propose Negative Preference Optimization (NPO), a simple alignment-inspired method that could efficiently and effectively unlearn a target dataset. We theoretically show that the progression toward catastrophic collapse by minimizing the NPO loss is exponentially slower than GA. Through experiments on synthetic data and the benchmark TOFU dataset, we demonstrate that NPO-based methods achieve a better balance between unlearning the undesirable data and maintaining the model's utilities. We also observe that NPO-based methods generate more sensible outputs than GA-based methods, whose outputs are often gibberish. Remarkably, on TOFU, NPO-based methods are the first to achieve reasonable unlearning results in forgetting 50% (or more) of the training data, whereas existing methods already struggle with forgetting 10% of training data.

------------

`[2404.05993] AEGIS: Online Adaptive AI Content Safety Moderation with Ensemble of LLM Experts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05993>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 03:54:28 GMT
    Shaona Ghosh, Prasoon Varshney, Erick Galinkin, Christopher Parisien

As Large Language Models (LLMs) and generative AI become more widespread, the content safety risks associated with their use also increase. We find a notable deficiency in high-quality content safety datasets and benchmarks that comprehensively cover a wide range of critical safety areas. To address this, we define a broad content safety risk taxonomy, comprising 13 critical risk and 9 sparse risk categories. Additionally, we curate AEGISSAFETYDATASET, a new dataset of approximately 26, 000 human-LLM interaction instances, complete with human annotations adhering to the taxonomy. We plan to release this dataset to the community to further research and to help benchmark LLM models for safety.
To demonstrate the effectiveness of the dataset, we instruction-tune multiple LLM-based safety models. We show that our models (named AEGISSAFETYEXPERTS), not only surpass or perform competitively with the state-of-the-art LLM-based safety models and general purpose LLMs, but also exhibit robustness across multiple jail-break attack categories. We also show how using AEGISSAFETYDATASET during the LLM alignment phase does not negatively impact the performance of the aligned models on MT Bench scores. Furthermore, we propose AEGIS, a novel application of a no-regret online adaptation framework with strong theoretical guarantees, to perform content moderation with an ensemble of LLM content safety experts in deployment

------------

`[2404.06209] Elephants Never Forget: Memorization and Learning of Tabular Data in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06209>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:58:21 GMT
    Sebastian Bordt, Harsha Nori, Vanessa Rodrigues, Besmira Nushi, Rich Caruana

While many have shown how Large Language Models (LLMs) can be applied to a diverse set of tasks, the critical issues of data contamination and memorization are often glossed over. In this work, we address this concern for tabular data. Specifically, we introduce a variety of different techniques to assess whether a language model has seen a tabular dataset during training.
This investigation reveals that LLMs have memorized many popular tabular datasets verbatim. We then compare the few-shot learning performance of LLMs on datasets that were seen during training to the performance on datasets released after training. We find that LLMs perform better on datasets seen during training, indicating that memorization leads to overfitting. At the same time, LLMs show non-trivial performance on novel datasets and are surprisingly robust to data transformations. We then investigate the in-context statistical learning abilities of LLMs. Without fine-tuning, we find them to be limited.
This suggests that much of the few-shot performance on novel datasets is due to the LLM's world knowledge. Overall, our results highlight the importance of testing whether an LLM has seen an evaluation dataset during pre-training. We make the exposure tests we developed available as the tabmemcheck Python package at https://github.com/interpretml/LLM-Tabular-Memorization-Checker

------------

`[2404.06349] CausalBench: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Causal Learning Capability of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06349>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:40:08 GMT
    Yu Zhou, Xingyu Wu, Beicheng Huang, Jibin Wu, Liang Feng, Kay Chen Tan

Causality reveals fundamental principles behind data distributions in real-world scenarios, and the capability of large language models (LLMs) to understand causality directly impacts their efficacy across explaining outputs, adapting to new evidence, and generating counterfactuals. With the proliferation of LLMs, the evaluation of this capacity is increasingly garnering attention. However, the absence of a comprehensive benchmark has rendered existing evaluation studies being straightforward, undiversified, and homogeneous. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a comprehensive benchmark, namely CausalBench, to evaluate the causality understanding capabilities of LLMs. Originating from the causal research community, CausalBench encompasses three causal learning-related tasks, which facilitate a convenient comparison of LLMs' performance with classic causal learning algorithms. Meanwhile, causal networks of varying scales and densities are integrated in CausalBench, to explore the upper limits of LLMs' capabilities across task scenarios of varying difficulty. Notably, background knowledge and structured data are also incorporated into CausalBench to thoroughly unlock the underlying potential of LLMs for long-text comprehension and prior information utilization. Based on CausalBench, this paper evaluates nineteen leading LLMs and unveils insightful conclusions in diverse aspects. Firstly, we present the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs and quantitatively explore the upper limits of their capabilities across various scenarios. Meanwhile, we further discern the adaptability and abilities of LLMs to specific structural networks and complex chain of thought structures. Moreover, this paper quantitatively presents the differences across diverse information sources and uncovers the gap between LLMs' capabilities in causal understanding within textual contexts and numerical domains.

------------

`[2404.06448] Automated Federated Pipeline for Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06448>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 16:50:30 GMT
    Zihan Fang, Zheng Lin, Zhe Chen, Xianhao Chen, Yue Gao, Yuguang Fang

Recently, there has been a surge in the development of advanced intelligent generative content (AIGC), especially large language models (LLMs). However, for many downstream tasks, it is necessary to fine-tune LLMs using private data. While federated learning offers a promising privacy-preserving solution to LLM fine-tuning, the substantial size of an LLM, combined with high computational and communication demands, makes it hard to apply to downstream tasks. More importantly, private edge servers often possess varying computing and network resources in real-world scenarios, introducing additional complexities to LLM fine-tuning. To tackle these problems, we design and implement an automated federated pipeline, named FedPipe, to fine-tune LLMs with minimal training cost but without adding any inference latency. FedPipe firstly identifies the weights to be fine-tuned based on their contributions to the LLM training. It then configures a low-rank adapter for each selected weight to train local low-rank adapters on an edge server, and aggregate local adapters of all edge servers to fine-tune the whole LLM. Finally, it appropriately quantizes the parameters of LLM to reduce memory space according to the requirements of edge servers. Extensive experiments demonstrate that FedPipe expedites the model training and achieves higher accuracy than state-of-the-art benchmarks.

------------

`[2404.05783] Responsible Generative AI: What to Generate and What Not <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05783>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 17:53:21 GMT
    Jindong Gu

In recent years, generative AI (GenAI), like large language models and text-to-image models, has received significant attention across various domains. However, ensuring the responsible generation of content by these models is crucial for their real-world applicability. This raises an interesting question: \textit{What should responsible GenAI generate, and what should it not?} To answer the question, this paper investigates the practical responsible requirements of both textual and visual generative models, outlining five key considerations: generating truthful content, avoiding toxic content, refusing harmful instruction, leaking no training data-related content, and ensuring generated content identifiable. Specifically, we review recent advancements and challenges in addressing these requirements. Besides, we discuss and emphasize the importance of responsible GenAI across healthcare, education, finance, and artificial general intelligence domains. Through a unified perspective on both textual and visual generative models, this paper aims to provide insights into practical safety-related issues and further benefit the community in building responsible GenAI.

------------

`[2404.05825] LLM-Augmented Retrieval: Enhancing Retrieval Models Through Language Models and Doc-Level Embedding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05825>`__

::

    Mon, 8 Apr 2024 19:29:07 GMT
    Mingrui Wu, Sheng Cao

Recently embedding-based retrieval or dense retrieval have shown state of the art results, compared with traditional sparse or bag-of-words based approaches.
This paper introduces a model-agnostic doc-level embedding framework through large language model (LLM) augmentation. In addition, it also improves some important components in the retrieval model training process, such as negative sampling, loss function, etc. By implementing this LLM-augmented retrieval framework, we have been able to significantly improve the effectiveness of widely-used retriever models such as Bi-encoders (Contriever, DRAGON) and late-interaction models (ColBERTv2), thereby achieving state-of-the-art results on LoTTE datasets and BEIR datasets.

------------

`[2404.05990] Automatic Authorities: Power and AI <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05990>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 03:48:42 GMT
    Seth Lazar

As rapid advances in Artificial Intelligence and the rise of some of history's most potent corporations meet the diminished neoliberal state, people are increasingly subject to power exercised by means of automated systems.
Machine learning and related computational technologies now underpin vital government services. They connect consumers and producers in new algorithmic markets. They determine how we find out about everything from how to vote to where to get vaccinated, and whose speech is amplified, reduced, or restricted.
And a new wave of products based on Large Language Models (LLMs) will further transform our economic and political lives. Automatic Authorities are automated computational systems used to exercise power over us by determining what we may know, what we may have, and what our options will be. In response to their rise, scholars working on the societal impacts of AI and related technologies have advocated shifting attention from how to make AI systems beneficial or fair towards a critical analysis of these new power relations. But power is everywhere, and is not necessarily bad. On what basis should we object to new or intensified power relations, and what can be done to justify them? This paper introduces the philosophical materials with which to formulate these questions, and offers preliminary answers. It starts by pinning down the concept of power, focusing on the ability that some agents have to shape others' lives. It then explores how AI enables and intensifies the exercise of power so understood, and sketches three problems with power and three ways to solve those problems. It emphasises, in particular, that justifying power requires more than satisfying substantive justificatory criteria; standards of proper authority and procedural legitimacy must also be met. We need to know not only what power may be used for, but how it may be used, and by whom.

------------

`[2404.06114] Communication-Efficient Large-Scale Distributed Deep Learning: A Comprehensive Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06114>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 08:35:04 GMT
    Feng Liang, Zhen Zhang, Haifeng Lu, Victor C. M. Leung, Yanyi Guo, Xiping Hu

With the rapid growth in the volume of data sets, models, and devices in the domain of deep learning, there is increasing attention on large-scale distributed deep learning. In contrast to traditional distributed deep learning, the large-scale scenario poses new challenges that include fault tolerance, scalability of algorithms and infrastructures, and heterogeneity in data sets, models, and resources. Due to intensive synchronization of models and sharing of data across GPUs and computing nodes during distributed training and inference processes, communication efficiency becomes the bottleneck for achieving high performance at a large scale. This article surveys the literature over the period of 2018-2023 on algorithms and technologies aimed at achieving efficient communication in large-scale distributed deep learning at various levels, including algorithms, frameworks, and infrastructures.
Specifically, we first introduce efficient algorithms for model synchronization and communication data compression in the context of large-scale distributed training. Next, we introduce efficient strategies related to resource allocation and task scheduling for use in distributed training and inference.
After that, we present the latest technologies pertaining to modern communication infrastructures used in distributed deep learning with a focus on examining the impact of the communication overhead in a large-scale and heterogeneous setting. Finally, we conduct a case study on the distributed training of large language models at a large scale to illustrate how to apply these technologies in real cases. This article aims to offer researchers a comprehensive understanding of the current landscape of large-scale distributed deep learning and to reveal promising future research directions toward communication-efficient solutions in this scope.

------------

`[2404.06201] Open-Source AI-based SE Tools: Opportunities and Challenges of Collaborative Software Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06201>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:47:02 GMT
    Zhihao Lin and Wei Ma and Tao Lin and Yaowen Zheng and Jingquan Ge and Jun Wang and Jacques Klein and Tegawende Bissyande and Yang Liu and Li Li

Large Language Models (LLMs) have become instrumental in advancing software engineering (SE) tasks, showcasing their efficacy in code understanding and beyond. Like traditional SE tools, open-source collaboration is key in realising the excellent products. However, with AI models, the essential need is in data. The collaboration of these AI-based SE models hinges on maximising the sources of high-quality data. However, data especially of high quality, often holds commercial or sensitive value, making it less accessible for open-source AI-based SE projects. This reality presents a significant barrier to the development and enhancement of AI-based SE tools within the software engineering community. Therefore, researchers need to find solutions for enabling open-source AI-based SE models to tap into resources by different organisations. Addressing this challenge, our position paper investigates one solution to facilitate access to diverse organizational resources for open-source AI models, ensuring privacy and commercial sensitivities are respected. We introduce a governance framework centered on federated learning (FL), designed to foster the joint development and maintenance of open-source AI code models while safeguarding data privacy and security. Additionally, we present guidelines for developers on AI-based SE tool collaboration, covering data requirements, model architecture, updating strategies, and version control. Given the significant influence of data characteristics on FL, our research examines the effect of code data heterogeneity on FL performance.

------------

`[2404.06212] OmniFusion Technical Report <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06212>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:00:19 GMT
    Elizaveta Goncharova, Anton Razzhigaev, Matvey Mikhalchuk, Maxim Kurkin, Irina Abdullaeva, Matvey Skripkin, Ivan Oseledets, Denis Dimitrov and Andrey Kuznetsov

Last year, multimodal architectures served up a revolution in AI-based approaches and solutions, extending the capabilities of large language models (LLM). We propose an \textit{OmniFusion} model based on a pretrained LLM and adapters for visual modality. We evaluated and compared several architecture design principles for better text and visual data coupling: MLP and transformer adapters, various CLIP ViT-based encoders (SigLIP, InternVIT, etc.), and their fusing approach, image encoding method (whole image or tiles encoding) and two 7B LLMs (the proprietary one and open-source Mistral). Experiments on 8 visual-language benchmarks show the top score for the best OmniFusion setup in terms of different VQA tasks in comparison with open-source LLaVA-like solutions: VizWiz, Pope, MM-Vet, ScienceQA, MMBench, TextVQA, VQAv2, MMMU. We also propose a variety of situations, where OmniFusion provides highly-detailed answers in different domains: housekeeping, sightseeing, culture, medicine, handwritten and scanned equations recognition, etc. Mistral-based OmniFusion model is an open-source solution with weights, training and inference scripts available at https://github.com/AIRI-Institute/OmniFusion.

------------

`[2404.06369] VISION2UI: A Real-World Dataset with Layout for Code Generation from UI Designs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06369>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:05:48 GMT
    Yi Gui, Zhen Li, Yao Wan, Yemin Shi, Hongyu Zhang, Yi Su, Shaoling Dong, Xing Zhou, Wenbin Jiang

Automatically generating UI code from webpage design visions can significantly alleviate the burden of developers, enabling beginner developers or designers to directly generate Web pages from design diagrams. Currently, prior research has accomplished the objective of generating UI code from rudimentary design visions or sketches through designing deep neural networks.
Inspired by the groundbreaking advancements achieved by Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), the automatic generation of UI code from high-fidelity design images is now emerging as a viable possibility. Nevertheless, our investigation reveals that existing MLLMs are hampered by the scarcity of authentic, high-quality, and large-scale datasets, leading to unsatisfactory performance in automated UI code generation. To mitigate this gap, we present a novel dataset, termed VISION2UI, extracted from real-world scenarios, augmented with comprehensive layout information, tailored specifically for finetuning MLLMs in UI code generation. Specifically, this dataset is derived through a series of operations, encompassing collecting, cleaning, and filtering of the open-source Common Crawl dataset. In order to uphold its quality, a neural scorer trained on labeled samples is utilized to refine the data, retaining higher-quality instances. Ultimately, this process yields a dataset comprising 2,000 (Much more is coming soon) parallel samples encompassing design visions and UI code. The dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/xcodemind/vision2ui.

------------

`[2404.06393] MuPT: A Generative Symbolic Music Pretrained Transformer <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06393>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:35:52 GMT
    Xingwei Qu, Yuelin Bai, Yinghao Ma, Ziya Zhou, Ka Man Lo, Jiaheng Liu, Ruibin Yuan, Lejun Min, Xueling Liu, Tianyu Zhang, Xinrun Du, Shuyue Guo, Yiming Liang, Yizhi Li, Shangda Wu, Junting Zhou, Tianyu Zheng, Ziyang Ma, Fengze Han, Wei Xue, Gus Xia, Emmanouil Benetos, Xiang Yue, Chenghua Lin, Xu Tan, Stephen W. Huang, Wenhu Chen, Jie Fu, and Ge Zhang

In this paper, we explore the application of Large Language Models (LLMs) to the pre-training of music. While the prevalent use of MIDI in music modeling is well-established, our findings suggest that LLMs are inherently more compatible with ABC Notation, which aligns more closely with their design and strengths, thereby enhancing the model's performance in musical composition. To address the challenges associated with misaligned measures from different tracks during generation, we propose the development of a \underline{S}ynchronized \underline{M}ulti-\underline{T}rack ABC Notation (\textbf{SMT-ABC Notation}), which aims to preserve coherence across multiple musical tracks. Our contributions include a series of models capable of handling up to 8192 tokens, covering 90\% of the symbolic music data in our training set. Furthermore, we explore the implications of the \underline{S}ymbolic \underline{M}usic \underline{S}caling Law (\textbf{SMS Law}) on model performance. The results indicate a promising direction for future research in music generation, offering extensive resources for community-led research through our open-source contributions.

------------

`[2404.06404] Apprentices to Research Assistants: Advancing Research with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06404>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:53:06 GMT
    M. Namvarpour and A. Razi

Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools in various research domains. This article examines their potential through a literature review and firsthand experimentation. While LLMs offer benefits like cost-effectiveness and efficiency, challenges such as prompt tuning, biases, and subjectivity must be addressed. The study presents insights from experiments utilizing LLMs for qualitative analysis, highlighting successes and limitations. Additionally, it discusses strategies for mitigating challenges, such as prompt optimization techniques and leveraging human expertise. This study aligns with the 'LLMs as Research Tools' workshop's focus on integrating LLMs into HCI data work critically and ethically. By addressing both opportunities and challenges, our work contributes to the ongoing dialogue on their responsible application in research.

------------

`[2404.06371] Model Generation from Requirements with LLMs: an Exploratory Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06371>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 15:07:25 GMT
    Alessio Ferrari, Sallam Abualhaija, Chetan Arora

Complementing natural language (NL) requirements with graphical models can improve stakeholders' communication and provide directions for system design.
However, creating models from requirements involves manual effort. The advent of generative large language models (LLMs), ChatGPT being a notable example, offers promising avenues for automated assistance in model generation. This paper investigates the capability of ChatGPT to generate a specific type of model, i.e., UML sequence diagrams, from NL requirements. We conduct a qualitative study in which we examine the sequence diagrams generated by ChatGPT for 28 requirements documents of various types and from different domains. Observations from the analysis of the generated diagrams have systematically been captured through evaluation logs, and categorized through thematic analysis. Our results indicate that, although the models generally conform to the standard and exhibit a reasonable level of understandability, their completeness and correctness with respect to the specified requirements often present challenges. This issue is particularly pronounced in the presence of requirements smells, such as ambiguity and inconsistency. The insights derived from this study can influence the practical utilization of LLMs in the RE process, and open the door to novel RE-specific prompting strategies targeting effective model generation.

------------

`[2404.06413] Large Language Models to the Rescue: Deadlock Resolution in Multi-Robot Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06413>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Apr 2024 16:03:26 GMT
    Kunal Garg, Jacob Arkin, Songyuan Zhang, Nicholas Roy, Chuchu Fan

Multi-agent robotic systems are prone to deadlocks in an obstacle environment where the system can get stuck away from its desired location under a smooth low-level control policy. Without an external intervention, often in terms of a high-level command, it is not possible to guarantee that just a low-level control policy can resolve such deadlocks. Utilizing the generalizability and low data requirements of large language models (LLMs), this paper explores the possibility of using LLMs for deadlock resolution. We propose a hierarchical control framework where an LLM resolves deadlocks by assigning a leader and direction for the leader to move along. A graph neural network (GNN) based low-level distributed control policy executes the assigned plan. We systematically study various prompting techniques to improve LLM's performance in resolving deadlocks. In particular, as part of prompt engineering, we provide in-context examples for LLMs. We conducted extensive experiments on various multi-robot environments with up to 15 agents and 40 obstacles. Our results demonstrate that LLM-based high-level planners are effective in resolving deadlocks in MRS.

------------

`[2404.05752] Physics Event Classification Using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05752>`__

::

    Fri, 5 Apr 2024 03:52:27 GMT
    Cristiano Fanelli and James Giroux and Patrick Moran and Hemalata Nayak and Karthik Suresh and Eric Walter

The 2023 AI4EIC hackathon was the culmination of the third annual AI4EIC workshop at The Catholic University of America. This workshop brought together researchers from physics, data science and computer science to discuss the latest developments in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) for the Electron Ion Collider (EIC), including applications for detectors, accelerators, and experimental control. The hackathon, held on the final day of the workshop, involved using a chatbot powered by a Large Language Model, ChatGPT-3.5, to train a binary classifier neutrons and photons in simulated data from the \textsc{GlueX} Barrel Calorimeter. In total, six teams of up to four participants from all over the world took part in this intense educational and research event. This article highlights the hackathon challenge, the resources and methodology used, and the results and insights gained from analyzing physics data using the most cutting-edge tools in AI/ML.

------------

`[2311.05772] ADaPT: As-Needed Decomposition and Planning with Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05772>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 8 Apr 2024 20:42:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Archiki Prasad [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 8 Nov 2023 17:59:15 UTC (8,543 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 20:42:17 UTC (8,556 KB)
    Archiki Prasad, Alexander Koller, Mareike Hartmann, Peter Clark, Ashish Sabharwal, Mohit Bansal, Tushar Khot

Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly being used for interactive decision-making tasks requiring planning and adapting to the environment. Recent works employ LLMs-as-agents in broadly two ways: iteratively determining the next action (iterative executors) or generating plans and executing sub-tasks using LLMs (plan-and-execute). However, these methods struggle with task complexity, as the inability to execute any sub-task may lead to task failure. To address these shortcomings, we introduce As-Needed Decomposition and Planning for complex Tasks (ADaPT), an approach that explicitly plans and decomposes complex sub-tasks as-needed, i.e., when the LLM is unable to execute them. ADaPT recursively decomposes sub-tasks to adapt to both task complexity and LLM capability. Our results demonstrate that ADaPT substantially outperforms established strong baselines, achieving success rates up to 28.3% higher in ALFWorld, 27% in WebShop, and 33% in TextCraft -- a novel compositional dataset that we introduce. Through extensive analysis, we illustrate the importance of multilevel decomposition and establish that ADaPT dynamically adjusts to the capabilities of the executor LLM as well as to task complexity.

------------

`[2309.12934] TOPFORMER: Topology-Aware Authorship Attribution of Deepfake Texts with Diverse Writing Styles <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12934>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:27:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Adaku Uchendu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 22 Sep 2023 15:32:49 UTC (3,308 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:27:48 UTC (2,261 KB)
    Adaku Uchendu, Thai Le, Dongwon Lee

Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have enabled the generation of open-ended high-quality texts, that are non-trivial to distinguish from human-written texts. We refer to such LLM-generated texts as deepfake texts. There are currently over 72K text generation models in the huggingface model repo. As such, users with malicious intent can easily use these open-sourced LLMs to generate harmful texts and dis/misinformation at scale. To mitigate this problem, a computational method to determine if a given text is a deepfake text or not is desired--i.e., Turing Test (TT). In particular, in this work, we investigate the more general version of the problem, known as Authorship Attribution (AA), in a multi-class setting--i.e., not only determining if a given text is a deepfake text or not but also being able to pinpoint which LLM is the author. We propose TopFormer to improve existing AA solutions by capturing more linguistic patterns in deepfake texts by including a Topological Data Analysis (TDA) layer in the Transformer-based model. We show the benefits of having a TDA layer when dealing with imbalanced, and multi-style datasets, by extracting TDA features from the reshaped $pooled\_output$ of our backbone as input. This Transformer-based model captures contextual representations (i.e., semantic and syntactic linguistic features), while TDA captures the shape and structure of data (i.e., linguistic structures). Finally, TopFormer, outperforms all baselines in all 3 datasets, achieving up to 7\% increase in Macro F1 score.

------------

`[2311.04902] Beyond Size: How Gradients Shape Pruning Decisions in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04902>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 8 Apr 2024 22:42:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhiqiang Shen [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 8 Nov 2023 18:59:54 UTC (4,751 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 22:42:49 UTC (3,949 KB)
    Rocktim Jyoti Das and Mingjie Sun and Liqun Ma and Zhiqiang Shen

Large Language Models (LLMs) with billions of parameters are prime targets for network pruning, removing some model weights without hurting performance. Prior approaches such as magnitude pruning, SparseGPT, and Wanda, either concentrated solely on weights or integrated weights with activations for sparsity. However, they overlooked the informative gradients derived from pretrained LLMs. In this paper, we present a novel sparsity-centric pruning method for pretrained LLMs, termed Gradient-based Language Model Pruner (GBLM-Pruner). GBLM-Pruner leverages the first-order term of the Taylor expansion, operating in a training-free manner by harnessing properly normalized gradients from a few calibration samples to determine the pruning metric, and substantially outperforms competitive counterparts like SparseGPT and Wanda in multiple benchmarks. Intriguingly, by incorporating gradients, unstructured pruning with our method tends to reveal some structural patterns, which mirrors the geometric interdependence inherent in the LLMs' parameter structure. Additionally, GBLM-Pruner functions without any subsequent retraining or weight updates to maintain its simplicity as other counterparts. Extensive evaluations on LLaMA-1 and LLaMA-2 across various benchmarks show that GBLM-Pruner surpasses magnitude pruning, Wanda and SparseGPT by significant margins. We further extend our approach on Vision Transformer. Our code and models are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.09696] Fumbling in Babel: An Investigation into ChatGPT's Language Identification Ability <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09696>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 8 Apr 2024 20:57:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Wei-Rui Chen [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 09:12:20 UTC (1,286 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 20:57:40 UTC (5,235 KB)
    Wei-Rui Chen, Ife Adebara, Khai Duy Doan, Qisheng Liao, Muhammad Abdul-Mageed

ChatGPT has recently emerged as a powerful NLP tool that can carry out a variety of tasks. However, the range of languages ChatGPT can handle remains largely a mystery. To uncover which languages ChatGPT `knows', we investigate its language identification (LID) abilities. For this purpose, we compile Babel-670, a benchmark comprising 670 languages representing 24 language families spoken in five continents. Languages in Babel-670 run the gamut from the very high-resource to the very low-resource. We then study ChatGPT's (both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) ability to (i) identify language names and language codes (ii) under zero- and few-shot conditions (iii) with and without provision of a label set. When compared to smaller finetuned LID tools, we find that ChatGPT lags behind. For example, it has poor performance on African languages. We conclude that current large language models would benefit from further development before they can sufficiently serve diverse communities.

------------

`[2311.17213] General-Purpose vs. Domain-Adapted Large Language Models for Extraction of Structured Data from Chest Radiology Reports <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17213>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 13:46:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Sanjeev Kumar Karn [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 28 Nov 2023 20:34:40 UTC (1,081 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 1 Dec 2023 19:56:22 UTC (1,074 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 13:46:46 UTC (1,021 KB)
    Ali H. Dhanaliwala, Rikhiya Ghosh, Sanjeev Kumar Karn, Poikavila Ullaskrishnan, Oladimeji Farri, Dorin Comaniciu and Charles E. Kahn

Radiologists produce unstructured data that can be valuable for clinical care when consumed by information systems. However, variability in style limits usage. Study compares system using domain-adapted language model (RadLing) and general-purpose LLM (GPT-4) in extracting relevant features from chest radiology reports and standardizing them to common data elements (CDEs). Three radiologists annotated a retrospective dataset of 1399 chest XR reports (900 training, 499 test) and mapped to 44 pre-selected relevant CDEs. GPT-4 system was prompted with report, feature set, value set, and dynamic few-shots to extract values and map to CDEs. Output key:value pairs were compared to reference standard at both stages and an identical match was considered TP. F1 score for extraction was 97% for RadLing-based system and 78% for GPT-4 system. F1 score for mapping was 98% for RadLing and 94% for GPT-4; difference was statistically significant (P<.001). RadLing's domain-adapted embeddings were better in feature extraction and its light-weight mapper had better f1 score in CDE assignment. RadLing system also demonstrated higher capabilities in differentiating between absent (99% vs 64%) and unspecified (99% vs 89%). RadLing system's domain-adapted embeddings helped improve performance of GPT-4 system to 92% by giving more relevant few-shot prompts. RadLing system offers operational advantages including local deployment and reduced runtime costs.

------------

`[2401.11052] Mining experimental data from Materials Science literature with Large Language Models: an evaluation study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11052>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 07:32:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Luca Foppiano [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 Jan 2024 23:00:31 UTC (479 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 07:32:37 UTC (449 KB)
    Luca Foppiano, Guillaume Lambard, Toshiyuki Amagasa, Masashi Ishii

This study is dedicated to assessing the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-3.5-Turbo, GPT-4, and GPT-4-Turbo in extracting structured information from scientific documents in materials science. To this end, we primarily focus on two critical tasks of information extraction: (i) a named entity recognition (NER) of studied materials and physical properties and (ii) a relation extraction (RE) between these entities. Due to the evident lack of datasets within Materials Informatics (MI), we evaluated using SuperMat, based on superconductor research, and MeasEval, a generic measurement evaluation corpus. The performance of LLMs in executing these tasks is benchmarked against traditional models based on the BERT architecture and rule-based approaches (baseline). We introduce a novel methodology for the comparative analysis of intricate material expressions, emphasising the standardisation of chemical formulas to tackle the complexities inherent in materials science information assessment. For NER, LLMs fail to outperform the baseline with zero-shot prompting and exhibit only limited improvement with few-shot prompting. However, a GPT-3.5-Turbo fine-tuned with the appropriate strategy for RE outperforms all models, including the baseline. Without any fine-tuning, GPT-4 and GPT-4-Turbo display remarkable reasoning and relationship extraction capabilities after being provided with merely a couple of examples, surpassing the baseline. Overall, the results suggest that although LLMs demonstrate relevant reasoning skills in connecting concepts, specialised models are currently a better choice for tasks requiring extracting complex domain-specific entities like materials. These insights provide initial guidance applicable to other materials science sub-domains in future work.

------------

`[2401.16640] TeenyTinyLlama: open-source tiny language models trained in Brazilian Portuguese <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.16640>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:35:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Nicholas Kluge Corra [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 00:25:54 UTC (2,405 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:35:02 UTC (2,408 KB)
    Nicholas Kluge Corr\^ea, Sophia Falk, Shiza Fatimah, Aniket Sen, Nythamar de Oliveira

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly advanced natural language processing, but their progress has yet to be equal across languages. While most LLMs are trained in high-resource languages like English, multilingual models generally underperform monolingual ones. Additionally, aspects of their multilingual foundation sometimes restrict the byproducts they produce, like computational demands and licensing regimes. In this study, we document the development of open-foundation models tailored for use in low-resource settings, their limitations, and their benefits. This is the TeenyTinyLlama pair: two compact models for Brazilian Portuguese text generation. We release them under the permissive Apache 2.0 license on GitHub and Hugging Face for community use and further development. See this https URL

------------

`[2402.11541] Counter-intuitive: Large Language Models Can Better Understand Knowledge Graphs Than We Thought <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11541>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 07:39:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Xinbang Dai [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 18 Feb 2024 10:44:03 UTC (416 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 07:39:47 UTC (811 KB)
    Xinbang Dai, Yuncheng Hua, Tongtong Wu, Yang Sheng, Qiu Ji, Guilin Qi

Although the method of enhancing large language models' (LLMs') reasoning ability and reducing their hallucinations through the use of knowledge graphs (KGs) has received widespread attention, the exploration of how to enable LLMs to integrate the structured knowledge in KGs on-the-fly remains inadequate. Researchers often co-train KG embeddings and LLM parameters to equip LLMs with the ability of comprehending KG knowledge. However, this resource-hungry training paradigm significantly increases the model learning cost and is also unsuitable for non-open-source, black-box LLMs. In this paper, we employ complex question answering (CQA) as a task to assess the LLM's ability of comprehending KG knowledge. We conducted a comprehensive comparison of KG knowledge injection methods (from triples to natural language text), aiming to explore the optimal prompting method for supplying KG knowledge to LLMs, thereby enhancing their comprehension of KG. Contrary to our initial expectations, our analysis revealed that LLMs effectively handle messy, noisy, and linearized KG knowledge, outperforming methods that employ well-designed natural language (NL) textual prompts. This counter-intuitive finding provides substantial insights for future research on LLMs' comprehension of structured knowledge.

------------

`[2402.12869] Exploring the Impact of Table-to-Text Methods on Augmenting LLM-based Question Answering with Domain Hybrid Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12869>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 09:00:57 GMT
    Submission history From: Dehai Min [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 10:00:58 UTC (1,903 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 09:00:57 UTC (1,905 KB)
    Dehai Min, Nan Hu, Rihui Jin, Nuo Lin, Jiaoyan Chen, Yongrui Chen, Yu Li, Guilin Qi, Yun Li, Nijun Li, Qianren Wang

Augmenting Large Language Models (LLMs) for Question Answering (QA) with domain specific data has attracted wide attention. However, domain data often exists in a hybrid format, including text and semi-structured tables, posing challenges for the seamless integration of information. Table-to-Text Generation is a promising solution by facilitating the transformation of hybrid data into a uniformly text-formatted corpus. Although this technique has been widely studied by the NLP community, there is currently no comparative analysis on how corpora generated by different table-to-text methods affect the performance of QA systems. In this paper, we address this research gap in two steps. First, we innovatively integrate table-to-text generation into the framework of enhancing LLM-based QA systems with domain hybrid data. Then, we utilize this framework in real-world industrial data to conduct extensive experiments on two types of QA systems (DSFT and RAG frameworks) with four representative methods: Markdown format, Template serialization, TPLM-based method, and LLM-based method. Based on the experimental results, we draw some empirical findings and explore the underlying reasons behind the success of some methods. We hope the findings of this work will provide a valuable reference for the academic and industrial communities in developing robust QA systems.

------------

`[2402.15873] SemEval-2024 Task 8: Weighted Layer Averaging RoBERTa for Black-Box Machine-Generated Text Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.15873>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:19:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Ayan Datta [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 24 Feb 2024 17:44:56 UTC (16 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:19:48 UTC (17 KB)
    Ayan Datta, Aryan Chandramania, Radhika Mamidi

This document contains the details of the authors' submission to the proceedings of SemEval 2024's Task 8: Multigenerator, Multidomain, and Multilingual Black-Box Machine-Generated Text Detection Subtask A (monolingual) and B. Detection of machine-generated text is becoming an increasingly important task, with the advent of large language models (LLMs). In this paper, we lay out how using weighted averages of RoBERTa layers lets us capture information about text that is relevant to machine-generated text detection.

------------

`[2403.06108] Large Language Models on Fine-grained Emotion Detection Dataset with Data Augmentation and Transfer Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06108>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 16:38:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhi Jing [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 10 Mar 2024 06:30:54 UTC (1,830 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 16:38:01 UTC (1,832 KB)
    Kaipeng Wang, Zhi Jing, Yongye Su, Yikun Han

This paper delves into enhancing the classification performance on the GoEmotions dataset, a large, manually annotated dataset for emotion detection in text. The primary goal of this paper is to address the challenges of detecting subtle emotions in text, a complex issue in Natural Language Processing (NLP) with significant practical applications. The findings offer valuable insights into addressing the challenges of emotion detection in text and suggest directions for future research, including the potential for a survey paper that synthesizes methods and performances across various datasets in this domain.

------------

`[2403.16432] $\textit{LinkPrompt}$: Natural and Universal Adversarial Attacks on Prompt-based Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.16432>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 13:05:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Yue Xu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 25 Mar 2024 05:27:35 UTC (7,539 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 27 Mar 2024 11:37:58 UTC (7,544 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 13:05:49 UTC (7,544 KB)
    Yue Xu, Wenjie Wang

Prompt-based learning is a new language model training paradigm that adapts the Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) to downstream tasks, which revitalizes the performance benchmarks across various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Instead of using a fixed prompt template to fine-tune the model, some research demonstrates the effectiveness of searching for the prompt via optimization. Such prompt optimization process of prompt-based learning on PLMs also gives insight into generating adversarial prompts to mislead the model, raising concerns about the adversarial vulnerability of this paradigm. Recent studies have shown that universal adversarial triggers (UATs) can be generated to alter not only the predictions of the target PLMs but also the prediction of corresponding Prompt-based Fine-tuning Models (PFMs) under the prompt-based learning paradigm. However, UATs found in previous works are often unreadable tokens or characters and can be easily distinguished from natural texts with adaptive defenses. In this work, we consider the naturalness of the UATs and develop $\textit{LinkPrompt}$, an adversarial attack algorithm to generate UATs by a gradient-based beam search algorithm that not only effectively attacks the target PLMs and PFMs but also maintains the naturalness among the trigger tokens. Extensive results demonstrate the effectiveness of $\textit{LinkPrompt}$, as well as the transferability of UATs generated by $\textit{LinkPrompt}$ to open-sourced Large Language Model (LLM) Llama2 and API-accessed LLM GPT-3.5-turbo. The resource is available at $\href{this https URL}{this https URL}$.

------------

`[2403.18249] Exploring the Deceptive Power of LLM-Generated Fake News: A Study of Real-World Detection Challenges <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18249>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 8 Apr 2024 19:55:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Yanshen Sun [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 27 Mar 2024 04:39:18 UTC (4,899 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 19:55:37 UTC (5,468 KB)
    Yanshen Sun, Jianfeng He, Limeng Cui, Shuo Lei, Chang-Tien Lu

Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have enabled the creation of fake news, particularly in complex fields like healthcare. Studies highlight the gap in the deceptive power of LLM-generated fake news with and without human assistance, yet the potential of prompting techniques has not been fully explored. Thus, this work aims to determine whether prompting strategies can effectively narrow this gap. Current LLM-based fake news attacks require human intervention for information gathering and often miss details and fail to maintain context consistency. Therefore, to better understand threat tactics, we propose a strong fake news attack method called conditional Variational-autoencoder-Like Prompt (VLPrompt). Unlike current methods, VLPrompt eliminates the need for additional data collection while maintaining contextual coherence and preserving the intricacies of the original text. To propel future research on detecting VLPrompt attacks, we created a new dataset named VLPrompt fake news (VLPFN) containing real and fake texts. Our experiments, including various detection methods and novel human study metrics, were conducted to assess their performance on our dataset, yielding numerous findings.

------------

`[2404.04167] Chinese Tiny LLM: Pretraining a Chinese-Centric Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.04167>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:48:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Zheng Tianyu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 5 Apr 2024 15:20:02 UTC (2,398 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 16:33:57 UTC (2,385 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 10:48:19 UTC (2,385 KB)
    Xinrun Du, Zhouliang Yu, Songyang Gao, Ding Pan, Yuyang Cheng, Ziyang Ma, Ruibin Yuan, Xingwei Qu, Jiaheng Liu, Tianyu Zheng, Xinchen Luo, Guorui Zhou, Binhang Yuan, Wenhu Chen, Jie Fu, and Ge Zhang

In this study, we introduce CT-LLM, a 2B large language model (LLM) that illustrates a pivotal shift towards prioritizing the Chinese language in developing LLMs. Uniquely initiated from scratch, CT-LLM diverges from the conventional methodology by primarily incorporating Chinese textual data, utilizing an extensive corpus of 1,200 billion tokens, including 800 billion Chinese tokens, 300 billion English tokens, and 100 billion code tokens. This strategic composition facilitates the model's exceptional proficiency in understanding and processing Chinese, a capability further enhanced through alignment techniques. Demonstrating remarkable performance on the CHC-Bench, CT-LLM excels in Chinese language tasks, and showcases its adeptness in English through SFT. This research challenges the prevailing paradigm of training LLMs predominantly on English corpora and then adapting them to other languages, broadening the horizons for LLM training methodologies. By open-sourcing the full process of training a Chinese LLM, including a detailed data processing procedure with the obtained Massive Appropriate Pretraining Chinese Corpus (MAP-CC), a well-chosen multidisciplinary Chinese Hard Case Benchmark (CHC-Bench), and the 2B-size Chinese Tiny LLM (CT-LLM), we aim to foster further exploration and innovation in both academia and industry, paving the way for more inclusive and versatile language models.

------------

`[2404.05632] Fighting crime with Transformers: Empirical analysis of address parsing methods in payment data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05632>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 09:30:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Bojan Petrovski [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 16:04:26 UTC (7,744 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 09:30:46 UTC (7,743 KB)
    Haitham Hammami, Louis Baligand, Bojan Petrovski

In the financial industry, identifying the location of parties involved in payments is a major challenge in the context of various regulatory requirements. For this purpose address parsing entails extracting fields such as street, postal code, or country from free text message attributes. While payment processing platforms are updating their standards with more structured formats such as SWIFT with ISO 20022, address parsing remains essential for a considerable volume of messages. With the emergence of Transformers and Generative Large Language Models (LLM), we explore the performance of state-of-the-art solutions given the constraint of processing a vast amount of daily data. This paper also aims to show the need for training robust models capable of dealing with real-world noisy transactional data. Our results suggest that a well fine-tuned Transformer model using early-stopping significantly outperforms other approaches. Nevertheless, generative LLMs demonstrate strong zero-shot performance and warrant further investigations.

------------

`[2401.03955] Tiny Time Mixers (TTMs): Fast Pre-trained Models for Enhanced Zero/Few-Shot Forecasting of Multivariate Time Series <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03955>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 07:19:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Vijay Ekambaram [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 8 Jan 2024 15:21:21 UTC (2,236 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 18:21:27 UTC (2,241 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 17 Jan 2024 16:27:24 UTC (2,249 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 6 Apr 2024 17:16:18 UTC (2,250 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 07:19:41 UTC (2,250 KB)
    Vijay Ekambaram, Arindam Jati, Nam H. Nguyen, Pankaj Dayama, Chandra Reddy, Wesley M. Gifford, Jayant Kalagnanam

Large pre-trained models for zero/few-shot learning excel in language and vision domains but encounter challenges in multivariate time series (TS) due to the diverse nature and scarcity of publicly available pre-training data. Consequently, there has been a recent surge in utilizing pre-trained large language models (LLMs) with token adaptations for TS forecasting. These approaches employ cross-domain transfer learning and surprisingly yield impressive results. However, these models are typically very slow and large (~billion parameters) and do not consider cross-channel correlations. To address this, we present Tiny Time Mixers (TTM), a significantly small model based on the lightweight TSMixer architecture. TTM marks the first success in developing fast and tiny general pre-trained models (<1M parameters), exclusively trained on public TS datasets, with effective transfer learning capabilities for forecasting. To tackle the complexity of pre-training on multiple datasets with varied temporal resolutions, we introduce several novel enhancements such as adaptive patching, dataset augmentation via downsampling, and resolution prefix tuning. Moreover, we employ a multi-level modeling strategy to effectively model channel correlations and infuse exogenous signals during fine-tuning, a crucial capability lacking in existing benchmarks. TTM shows significant accuracy gains (12-38\%) over popular benchmarks in few/zero-shot forecasting. It also drastically reduces the compute needs as compared to LLM-TS methods, with a 14X cut in learnable parameters, 106X less total parameters, and substantial reductions in fine-tuning (65X) and inference time (54X). In fact, TTM's zero-shot often surpasses the few-shot results in many popular benchmarks, highlighting the efficacy of our approach. Models and source code are available at this https URL

------------

`[2404.01306] NeuroPrune: A Neuro-inspired Topological Sparse Training Algorithm for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01306>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:59:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Amit Dhurandhar [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 22:21:47 UTC (8,124 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 14:59:10 UTC (8,124 KB)
    Amit Dhurandhar, Tejaswini Pedapati, Ronny Luss, Soham Dan, Aurelie Lozano, Payel Das and Georgios Kollias

Transformer-based Language Models have become ubiquitous in Natural Language Processing (NLP) due to their impressive performance on various tasks. However, expensive training as well as inference remains a significant impediment to their widespread applicability. While enforcing sparsity at various levels of the model architecture has found promise in addressing scaling and efficiency issues, there remains a disconnect between how sparsity affects network topology. Inspired by brain neuronal networks, we explore sparsity approaches through the lens of network topology. Specifically, we exploit mechanisms seen in biological networks, such as preferential attachment and redundant synapse pruning, and show that principled, model-agnostic sparsity approaches are performant and efficient across diverse NLP tasks, spanning both classification (such as natural language inference) and generation (summarization, machine translation), despite our sole objective not being optimizing performance. NeuroPrune is competitive with (or sometimes superior to) baselines on performance and can be up to $10$x faster in terms of training time for a given level of sparsity, simultaneously exhibiting measurable improvements in inference time in many cases.

------------

`[2311.03366] Neural Code Generation Enhancement via Functional Overlap Reranking <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.03366>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 8 Apr 2024 21:54:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Nghi D. Q. Bui [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 22:20:31 UTC (1,144 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 21:54:14 UTC (705 KB)
    Hung Quoc To, Minh Huynh Nguyen, Nghi D. Q. Bui

Code Large Language Models (CodeLLMs) have marked a new era in code generation advancements. However, selecting the best solutions from all possible CodeLLM solutions remains a challenge. Previous methods frequently overlooked the intricate functional similarities and interactions between clusters, resulting in suboptimal results. In this work, we introduce \textit{SRank}, a novel reranking strategy for selecting the best solution from code generation that focuses on modeling the relationship between clusters of solutions. By quantifying the functional overlap between clusters, our approach provides a better ranking strategy of code solutions. Empirical results show that our method achieves remarkable results on pass@1 score. For instance, on the Human-Eval benchmark, we achieve 69.66\% in pass@1 with Codex002, 75.31\% for WizardCoder, 53.99\% for StarCoder and 60.55\% for CodeGen, which surpass the state-of-the-arts solution ranking methods, such as CodeT and Coder-Reviewer on the same CodeLLM with significant margin ($\approx 6.1\%$ improvement on average). Even in scenarios with a limited number of sampled solutions and test cases, our approach demonstrates robustness and superiority, marking a new benchmark in code generation reranking.

------------

`[2402.03130] Evaluation of ChatGPT Usability as A Code Generation Tool <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03130>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 12:37:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Hong Zhu [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Feb 2024 15:56:19 UTC (557 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 12:37:56 UTC (4,614 KB)
    Tanha Miah and Hong Zhu

With the rapid advance of machine learning (ML) technology, large language models (LLMs) are increasingly explored as an intelligent tool to generate program code from natural language specifications. However, existing evaluations of LLMs have focused on their capabilities in comparison with humans. It is desirable to evaluate their usability when deciding on whether to use a LLM in software production. This paper proposes a user centric method. It includes metadata in the test cases of a benchmark to describe their usages, conducts testing in a multi-attempt process that mimic the uses of LLMs, measures LLM generated solutions on a set of quality attributes that reflect usability, and evaluates the performance based on user experiences in the uses of LLMs as a tool. The paper reports an application of the method in the evaluation of ChatGPT usability as a code generation tool for the R programming language. Our experiments demonstrated that ChatGPT is highly useful for generating R program code although it may fail on hard programming tasks. The user experiences are good with overall average number of attempts being 1.61 and the average time of completion being 47.02 seconds. Our experiments also found that the weakest aspect of usability is conciseness, which has a score of 3.80 out of 5. Our experiment also shows that it is hard for human developers to learn from experiences to improve the skill of using ChatGPT to generate code.

------------

`[2404.03664] LLMs in the Heart of Differential Testing: A Case Study on a Medical Rule Engine <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03664>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 08:08:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Erblin Isaku [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 10:56:15 UTC (8,250 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 08:08:52 UTC (8,250 KB)
    Erblin Isaku, Christoph Laaber, Hassan Sartaj, Shaukat Ali, Thomas Schwitalla, Jan F. Nyg{\aa}rd

The Cancer Registry of Norway (CRN) uses an automated cancer registration support system (CaReSS) to support core cancer registry activities, i.e, data capture, data curation, and producing data products and statistics for various stakeholders. GURI is a core component of CaReSS, which is responsible for validating incoming data with medical rules. Such medical rules are manually implemented by medical experts based on medical standards, regulations, and research. Since large language models (LLMs) have been trained on a large amount of public information, including these documents, they can be employed to generate tests for GURI. Thus, we propose an LLM-based test generation and differential testing approach (LLMeDiff) to test GURI. We experimented with four different LLMs, two medical rule engine implementations, and 58 real medical rules to investigate the hallucination, success, time efficiency, and robustness of the LLMs to generate tests, and these tests' ability to find potential issues in GURI. Our results showed that GPT-3.5 hallucinates the least, is the most successful, and is generally the most robust; however, it has the worst time efficiency. Our differential testing revealed 22 medical rules where implementation inconsistencies were discovered (e.g., regarding handling rule versions). Finally, we provide insights for practitioners and researchers based on the results.

------------

`[2404.05499] Guiding Large Language Models to Generate Computer-Parsable Content <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05499>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:29:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiaye Wang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 8 Apr 2024 13:22:24 UTC (1,828 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 9 Apr 2024 11:29:47 UTC (1,723 KB)
    Jiaye Wang

We propose a method to guide Large Language Models (LLMs) in generating structured content adhering to specific conventions without fine-tuning. By utilizing coroutine-based content generation constraints through a pre-agreed context-free grammar (CFG), LLMs are directed during decoding to produce formal language compliant outputs. This enhances stability and consistency in generating target data structures, types, or instructions, reducing application development complexities. Experimentally, error rates of GPT-2 and Gemma exceed 95% for DSLs longer than 36 and 282 tokens, respectively. We introduce YieldLang, a coroutine-based DSL generation framework, and evaluate it with LLMs on various tasks including JSON and Mermaid flowchart generation. Compared to benchmarks, our approach improves accuracy by 1.09 to 11.6 times, with LLMs requiring only about 16.5% of the samples to generate JSON effectively. This enhances usability of LLM-generated content for computer programs.
