240402
========

`[2404.00276] Instruction-Driven Game Engines on Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00276>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 08:02:16 GMT
    Hongqiu Wu, Yan Wang, Xingyuan Liu, Hai Zhao, Min Zhang

The Instruction-Driven Game Engine (IDGE) project aims to democratize game development by enabling a large language model (LLM) to follow free-form game rules and autonomously generate game-play processes. The IDGE allows users to create games by issuing simple natural language instructions, which significantly lowers the barrier for game development. We approach the learning process for IDGEs as a Next State Prediction task, wherein the model autoregressively predicts in-game states given player actions. It is a challenging task because the computation of in-game states must be precise; otherwise, slight errors could disrupt the game-play. To address this, we train the IDGE in a curriculum manner that progressively increases the model's exposure to complex scenarios.
Our initial progress lies in developing an IDGE for Poker, a universally cherished card game. The engine we've designed not only supports a wide range of poker variants but also allows for high customization of rules through natural language inputs. Furthermore, it also favors rapid prototyping of new games from minimal samples, proposing an innovative paradigm in game development that relies on minimal prompt and data engineering. This work lays the groundwork for future advancements in instruction-driven game creation, potentially transforming how games are designed and played.

------------

`[2404.00756] Recover: A Neuro-Symbolic Framework for Failure Detection and Recovery <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00756>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 17:54:22 GMT
    Cristina Cornelio and Mohammed Diab

Recognizing failures during task execution and implementing recovery procedures is challenging in robotics. Traditional approaches rely on the availability of extensive data or a tight set of constraints, while more recent approaches leverage large language models (LLMs) to verify task steps and replan accordingly. However, these methods often operate offline, necessitating scene resets and incurring in high costs. This paper introduces Recover, a neuro-symbolic framework for online failure identification and recovery. By integrating ontologies, logical rules, and LLM-based planners, Recover exploits symbolic information to enhance the ability of LLMs to generate recovery plans and also to decrease the associated costs. In order to demonstrate the capabilities of our method in a simulated kitchen environment, we introduce OntoThor, an ontology describing the AI2Thor simulator setting. Empirical evaluation shows that OntoThor's logical rules accurately detect all failures in the analyzed tasks, and that Recover considerably outperforms, for both failure detection and recovery, a baseline method reliant solely on LLMs.

------------

`[2404.00141] Classifying Conspiratorial Narratives At Scale: False Alarms and Erroneous Connections <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00141>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 20:29:12 GMT
    Ahmad Diab, Rr. Nefriana, and Yu-Ru Lin

Online discussions frequently involve conspiracy theories, which can contribute to the proliferation of belief in them. However, not all discussions surrounding conspiracy theories promote them, as some are intended to debunk them. Existing research has relied on simple proxies or focused on a constrained set of signals to identify conspiracy theories, which limits our understanding of conspiratorial discussions across different topics and online communities. This work establishes a general scheme for classifying discussions related to conspiracy theories based on authors' perspectives on the conspiracy belief, which can be expressed explicitly through narrative elements, such as the agent, action, or objective, or implicitly through references to known theories, such as chemtrails or the New World Order. We leverage human-labeled ground truth to train a BERT-based model for classifying online CTs, which we then compared to the Generative Pre-trained Transformer machine (GPT) for detecting online conspiratorial content. Despite GPT's known strengths in its expressiveness and contextual understanding, our study revealed significant flaws in its logical reasoning, while also demonstrating comparable strengths from our classifiers. We present the first large-scale classification study using posts from the most active conspiracy-related Reddit forums and find that only one-third of the posts are classified as positive. This research sheds light on the potential applications of large language models in tasks demanding nuanced contextual comprehension.

------------

`[2404.00152] On-the-fly Definition Augmentation of LLMs for Biomedical NER <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00152>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 20:59:27 GMT
    Monica Munnangi, Sergey Feldman, Byron C Wallace, Silvio Amir, Tom Hope, Aakanksha Naik

Despite their general capabilities, LLMs still struggle on biomedical NER tasks, which are difficult due to the presence of specialized terminology and lack of training data. In this work we set out to improve LLM performance on biomedical NER in limited data settings via a new knowledge augmentation approach which incorporates definitions of relevant concepts on-the-fly. During this process, to provide a test bed for knowledge augmentation, we perform a comprehensive exploration of prompting strategies. Our experiments show that definition augmentation is useful for both open source and closed LLMs. For example, it leads to a relative improvement of 15\% (on average) in GPT-4 performance (F1) across all (six) of our test datasets. We conduct extensive ablations and analyses to demonstrate that our performance improvements stem from adding relevant definitional knowledge. We find that careful prompting strategies also improve LLM performance, allowing them to outperform fine-tuned language models in few-shot settings. To facilitate future research in this direction, we release our code at https://github.com/allenai/beacon.

------------

`[2404.00188] DataAgent: Evaluating Large Language Models' Ability to Answer Zero-Shot, Natural Language Queries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00188>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 22:59:34 GMT
    Manit Mishra, Abderrahman Braham, Charles Marsom, Bryan Chung, Gavin Griffin, Dakshesh Sidnerlikar, Chatanya Sarin, Arjun Rajaram

Conventional processes for analyzing datasets and extracting meaningful information are often time-consuming and laborious. Previous work has identified manual, repetitive coding and data collection as major obstacles that hinder data scientists from undertaking more nuanced labor and high-level projects. To combat this, we evaluated OpenAI's GPT-3.5 as a "Language Data Scientist" (LDS) that can extrapolate key findings, including correlations and basic information, from a given dataset. The model was tested on a diverse set of benchmark datasets to evaluate its performance across multiple standards, including data science code-generation based tasks involving libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-Learn, and TensorFlow, and was broadly successful in correctly answering a given data science query related to the benchmark dataset. The LDS used various novel prompt engineering techniques to effectively answer a given question, including Chain-of-Thought reinforcement and SayCan prompt engineering. Our findings demonstrate great potential for leveraging Large Language Models for low-level, zero-shot data analysis.

------------

`[2404.00189] GPTA: Generative Prompt Tuning Assistant for Synergistic Downstream Neural Network Enhancement with LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00189>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 23:04:04 GMT
    Xiao Liu and Jiawei Zhang

This study introduces GPTA, a Large Language Model assistance training framework, that enhances the training of downstream task models via prefix prompt. By minimizing data exposure to LLM, the framework addresses the security and legal challenges of applying LLM in downstream task model training. GPTA utilizes a new synergistic training approach, optimizing the downstream models with parameter gradients and LLMs with the novel ``dialogue gradient''. The framework not only demonstrates significant improvements in model performance across six NLP benchmark datasets, but also reduces overfitting in low-resource scenarios effectively. The detailed analyses further validate that our pioneer framework provides a cost-efficient and adaptive method for downstream task model training with LLM support.

------------

`[2404.00205] Conceptual and Unbiased Reasoning in Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00205>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 00:53:53 GMT
    Ben Zhou, Hongming Zhang, Sihao Chen, Dian Yu, Hongwei Wang, Baolin Peng, Dan Roth, Dong Yu

Conceptual reasoning, the ability to reason in abstract and high-level perspectives, is key to generalization in human cognition. However, limited study has been done on large language models' capability to perform conceptual reasoning. In this work, we bridge this gap and propose a novel conceptualization framework that forces models to perform conceptual reasoning on abstract questions and generate solutions in a verifiable symbolic space.
Using this framework as an analytical tool, we show that existing large language models fall short on conceptual reasoning, dropping 9% to 28% on various benchmarks compared to direct inference methods. We then discuss how models can improve since high-level abstract reasoning is key to unbiased and generalizable decision-making. We propose two techniques to add trustworthy induction signals by generating familiar questions with similar underlying reasoning paths and asking models to perform self-refinement. Experiments show that our proposed techniques improve models' conceptual reasoning performance by 8% to 11%, achieving a more robust reasoning system that relies less on inductive biases.

------------

`[2404.00209] EventGround: Narrative Reasoning by Grounding to Eventuality-centric Knowledge Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00209>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 01:16:37 GMT
    Cheng Jiayang, Lin Qiu, Chunkit Chan, Xin Liu, Yangqiu Song, Zheng Zhang

Narrative reasoning relies on the understanding of eventualities in story contexts, which requires a wealth of background world knowledge. To help machines leverage such knowledge, existing solutions can be categorized into two groups. Some focus on implicitly modeling eventuality knowledge by pretraining language models (LMs) with eventuality-aware objectives. However, this approach breaks down knowledge structures and lacks interpretability.
Others explicitly collect world knowledge of eventualities into structured eventuality-centric knowledge graphs (KGs). However, existing research on leveraging these knowledge sources for free-texts is limited. In this work, we propose an initial comprehensive framework called EventGround, which aims to tackle the problem of grounding free-texts to eventuality-centric KGs for contextualized narrative reasoning. We identify two critical problems in this direction: the event representation and sparsity problems. We provide simple yet effective parsing and partial information extraction methods to tackle these problems. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach consistently outperforms baseline models when combined with graph neural network (GNN) or large language model (LLM) based graph reasoning models. Our framework, incorporating grounded knowledge, achieves state-of-the-art performance while providing interpretable evidence.

------------

`[2404.00211] Multi-Conditional Ranking with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00211>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 01:26:05 GMT
    Pouya Pezeshkpour, Estevam Hruschka

Utilizing large language models (LLMs) to rank a set of items has become a common approach in recommendation and retrieval systems. Typically, these systems focus on ordering a substantial number of documents in a monotonic order based on a given query. However, real-world scenarios often present a different challenge: ranking a comparatively smaller set of items, but according to a variety of diverse and occasionally conflicting conditions. In this paper, we define and explore the task of multi-conditional ranking by introducing MCRank, a benchmark tailored for assessing multi-conditional ranking across various item types and conditions. Our analysis of LLMs using MCRank indicates a significant decrease in performance as the number and complexity of items and conditions grow. To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel decomposed reasoning method, consisting of EXtracting and Sorting the conditions, and then Iterativly Ranking the items (EXSIR). Our extensive experiments show that this decomposed reasoning method enhances LLMs' performance significantly, achieving up to a 12% improvement over existing LLMs. We also provide a detailed analysis of LLMs performance across various condition categories, and examine the effectiveness of decomposition step.
Furthermore, we compare our method with existing approaches such as Chain-of-Thought and an encoder-type ranking model, demonstrating the superiority of our approach and complexity of MCR task. We released our dataset and code.

------------

`[2404.00213] Injecting New Knowledge into Large Language Models via Supervised Fine-Tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00213>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 01:56:07 GMT
    Nick Mecklenburg, Yiyou Lin, Xiaoxiao Li, Daniel Holstein, Leonardo Nunes, Sara Malvar, Bruno Silva, Ranveer Chandra, Vijay Aski, Pavan Kumar Reddy Yannam, Tolga Aktas

In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in generating human-like text, proving to be a valuable asset across various applications. However, adapting these models to incorporate new, out-of-domain knowledge remains a challenge, particularly for facts and events that occur after the model's knowledge cutoff date. This paper investigates the effectiveness of Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) as a method for knowledge injection in LLMs, specifically focusing on the domain of recent sporting events. We compare different dataset generation strategies -- token-based and fact-based scaling -- to create training data that helps the model learn new information. Our experiments on GPT-4 demonstrate that while token-based scaling can lead to improvements in Q&A accuracy, it may not provide uniform coverage of new knowledge. Fact-based scaling, on the other hand, offers a more systematic approach to ensure even coverage across all facts. We present a novel dataset generation process that leads to more effective knowledge ingestion through SFT, and our results show considerable performance improvements in Q&A tasks related to out-of-domain knowledge. This study contributes to the understanding of domain adaptation for LLMs and highlights the potential of SFT in enhancing the factuality of LLM responses in specific knowledge domains.

------------

`[2404.00216] Is Factuality Decoding a Free Lunch for LLMs? Evaluation on Knowledge Editing Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00216>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 02:08:28 GMT
    Baolong Bi, Shenghua Liu, Yiwei Wang, Lingrui Mei and Xueqi Cheng

The rapid development of large language models (LLMs) enables them to convey factual knowledge in a more human-like fashion. Extensive efforts have been made to reduce factual hallucinations by modifying LLMs with factuality decoding. However, they also pose risks of hindering knowledge updates, as they make models overly confident in known facts. In this work, we first revisite the current factuality decoding methods and verified their effectiveness in enhancing factual accuracy. Subsequently, we conduct further evaluation of several strong factuality decoding methods on the knowledge editing benchmark.
All these decoding methods significantly diminish the performance of llama2 models compared to their original decoding, with the largest decrease being a staggering 81.3\%. This further indicates that the current existing decoding methods still cannot perfectly address the factual hallucinations, as they overlook the importance of preserving the flexibility for knowledge editing.
Therefore, our work suggests that research into factual alignment should simultaneously focus on the effectiveness of knowledge editing.

------------

`[2404.00242] DeFT: Flash Tree-attention with IO-Awareness for Efficient Tree-search-based LLM Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00242>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 04:34:54 GMT
    Jinwei Yao, Kaiqi Chen, Kexun Zhang, Jiaxuan You, Binhang Yuan, Zeke Wang, Tao Lin

Decoding using tree search can greatly enhance the inference quality for transformer-based Large Language Models (LLMs). Depending on the guidance signal, it searches for the best path from root to leaf in the tree by forming LLM outputs to improve controllability, reasoning ability, alignment, et cetera. However, current tree decoding strategies and their inference systems do not suit each other well due to redundancy in computation, memory footprints, and memory access, resulting in inefficient inference. To address this issue, we propose DeFT, an IO-aware tree attention algorithm that maintains memory-efficient attention calculation with low memory footprints in two stages: (1) QKV Preparation: we propose a KV-Guided Tree Split strategy to group QKV wisely for high utilization of GPUs and reduction of memory reads/writes for the KV cache between GPU global memory and on-chip shared memory as much as possible; (2) Attention Calculation: we calculate partial attention of each QKV groups in a fused kernel then apply a Tree-topology-aware Global Reduction strategy to get final attention. Thanks to a reduction in KV cache IO by 3.6-4.5$\times$, along with an additional reduction in IO for $\mathbf{Q} \mathbf{K}^\top$ and Softmax equivalent to 25% of the total KV cache IO, DeFT can achieve a speedup of 1.7-2.4$\times$ in end-to-end latency across two practical reasoning tasks over the SOTA attention algorithms.

------------

`[2404.00246] Your Co-Workers Matter: Evaluating Collaborative Capabilities of Language Models in Blocks World <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00246>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 04:48:38 GMT
    Guande Wu, Chen Zhao, Claudio Silva, He He

Language agents that interact with the world on their own have great potential for automating digital tasks. While large language model (LLM) agents have made progress in understanding and executing tasks such as textual games and webpage control, many real-world tasks also require collaboration with humans or other LLMs in equal roles, which involves intent understanding, task coordination, and communication. To test LLM's ability to collaborate, we design a blocks-world environment, where two agents, each having unique goals and skills, build a target structure together. To complete the goals, they can act in the world and communicate in natural language. Under this environment, we design increasingly challenging settings to evaluate different collaboration perspectives, from independent to more complex, dependent tasks. We further adopt chain-of-thought prompts that include intermediate reasoning steps to model the partner's state and identify and correct execution errors. Both human-machine and machine-machine experiments show that LLM agents have strong grounding capacities, and our approach significantly improves the evaluation metric.

------------

`[2404.00264] DiLM: Distilling Dataset into Language Model for Text-level Dataset Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00264>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 06:40:54 GMT
    Aru Maekawa, Satoshi Kosugi, Kotaro Funakoshi, Manabu Okumura

Dataset distillation aims to compress a training dataset by creating a small number of informative synthetic samples such that neural networks trained on them perform as well as those trained on the original training dataset. Current text dataset distillation methods create each synthetic sample as a sequence of word embeddings instead of a text to apply gradient-based optimization; however, such embedding-level distilled datasets cannot be used for training other models whose word embedding weights are different from the model used for distillation. To address this issue, we propose a novel text dataset distillation approach, called Distilling dataset into Language Model (DiLM), which trains a language model to generate informative synthetic training samples as text data, instead of directly optimizing synthetic samples. We evaluated DiLM on various text classification datasets and showed that distilled synthetic datasets from DiLM outperform those from current coreset selection methods. DiLM achieved remarkable generalization performance in training different types of models and in-context learning of large language models. Our code will be available at https://github.com/arumaekawa/DiLM.

------------

`[2404.00267] Secret Keepers: The Impact of LLMs on Linguistic Markers of Personal Traits <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00267>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 06:49:17 GMT
    Zhivar Sourati, Meltem Ozcan, Colin McDaniel, Alireza Ziabari, Nuan Wen, Ala Tak, Fred Morstatter, Morteza Dehghani

Prior research has established associations between individuals' language usage and their personal traits; our linguistic patterns reveal information about our personalities, emotional states, and beliefs. However, with the increasing adoption of Large Language Models (LLMs) as writing assistants in everyday writing, a critical question emerges: are authors' linguistic patterns still predictive of their personal traits when LLMs are involved in the writing process? We investigate the impact of LLMs on the linguistic markers of demographic and psychological traits, specifically examining three LLMs - GPT3.5, Llama 2, and Gemini - across six different traits: gender, age, political affiliation, personality, empathy, and morality. Our findings indicate that although the use of LLMs slightly reduces the predictive power of linguistic patterns over authors' personal traits, the significant changes are infrequent, and the use of LLMs does not fully diminish the predictive power of authors' linguistic patterns over their personal traits. We also note that some theoretically established lexical-based linguistic markers lose their reliability as predictors when LLMs are used in the writing process. Our findings have important implications for the study of linguistic markers of personal traits in the age of LLMs.

------------

`[2404.00303] A Comprehensive Study on NLP Data Augmentation for Hate Speech Detection: Legacy Methods, BERT, and LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00303>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 09:55:58 GMT
    Md Saroar Jahan, Mourad Oussalah, Djamila Romaissa Beddia, Jhuma kabir Mim and Nabil Arhab

The surge of interest in data augmentation within the realm of NLP has been driven by the need to address challenges posed by hate speech domains, the dynamic nature of social media vocabulary, and the demands for large-scale neural networks requiring extensive training data. However, the prevalent use of lexical substitution in data augmentation has raised concerns, as it may inadvertently alter the intended meaning, thereby impacting the efficacy of supervised machine learning models. In pursuit of suitable data augmentation methods, this study explores both established legacy approaches and contemporary practices such as Large Language Models (LLM), including GPT in Hate Speech detection. Additionally, we propose an optimized utilization of BERT-based encoder models with contextual cosine similarity filtration, exposing significant limitations in prior synonym substitution methods. Our comparative analysis encompasses five popular augmentation techniques: WordNet and Fast-Text synonym replacement, Back-translation, BERT-mask contextual augmentation, and LLM. Our analysis across five benchmarked datasets revealed that while traditional methods like back-translation show low label alteration rates (0.3-1.5%), and BERT-based contextual synonym replacement offers sentence diversity but at the cost of higher label alteration rates (over 6%). Our proposed BERT-based contextual cosine similarity filtration markedly reduced label alteration to just 0.05%, demonstrating its efficacy in 0.7% higher F1 performance. However, augmenting data with GPT-3 not only avoided overfitting with up to sevenfold data increase but also improved embedding space coverage by 15% and classification F1 score by 1.4% over traditional methods, and by 0.8% over our method.

------------

`[2404.00344] Can LLMs Master Math? Investigating Large Language Models on Math Stack Exchange <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00344>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 12:48:31 GMT
    Ankit Satpute and Noah Giessing and Andre Greiner-Petter and Moritz Schubotz and Olaf Teschke and Akiko Aizawa and Bela Gipp

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional capabilities in various natural language tasks, often achieving performances that surpass those of humans. Despite these advancements, the domain of mathematics presents a distinctive challenge, primarily due to its specialized structure and the precision it demands. In this study, we adopted a two-step approach for investigating the proficiency of LLMs in answering mathematical questions.
First, we employ the most effective LLMs, as identified by their performance on math question-answer benchmarks, to generate answers to 78 questions from the Math Stack Exchange (MSE). Second, a case analysis is conducted on the LLM that showed the highest performance, focusing on the quality and accuracy of its answers through manual evaluation. We found that GPT-4 performs best (nDCG of 0.48 and P@10 of 0.37) amongst existing LLMs fine-tuned for answering mathematics questions and outperforms the current best approach on ArqMATH3 Task1, considering P@10. Our Case analysis indicates that while the GPT-4 can generate relevant responses in certain instances, it does not consistently answer all questions accurately. This paper explores the current limitations of LLMs in navigating complex mathematical problem-solving. Through case analysis, we shed light on the gaps in LLM capabilities within mathematics, thereby setting the stage for future research and advancements in AI-driven mathematical reasoning. We make our code and findings publicly available for research: \url{https://github.com/gipplab/LLM-Investig-MathStackExchange}

------------

`[2404.00361] Controllable and Diverse Data Augmentation with Large Language Model for Low-Resource Open-Domain Dialogue Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00361>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 13:28:51 GMT
    Zhenhua Liu, Tong Zhu, Jianxiang Xiang, Wenliang Chen

Data augmentation (DA) is crucial to mitigate model training instability and over-fitting problems in low-resource open-domain dialogue generation. However, traditional DA methods often neglect semantic data diversity, restricting the overall quality. Recently, large language models (LLM) have been used for DA to generate diversified dialogues. However, they have limited controllability and tend to generate dialogues with a distribution shift compared to the seed dialogues. To maximize the augmentation diversity and address the controllability problem, we propose \textbf{S}ummary-based \textbf{D}ialogue \textbf{A}ugmentation with LLM (SDA). Our approach enhances the controllability of LLM by using dialogue summaries as a planning tool. Based on summaries, SDA can generate high-quality and diverse dialogue data even with a small seed dataset. To evaluate the efficacy of data augmentation methods for open-domain dialogue, we designed a clustering-based metric to characterize the semantic diversity of the augmented dialogue data. The experimental results show that SDA can augment high-quality and semantically diverse dialogues given a small seed dataset and an LLM, and the augmented data can boost the performance of open-domain dialogue models.

------------

`[2404.00376] Small Language Models Learn Enhanced Reasoning Skills from Medical Textbooks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00376>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 14:09:00 GMT
    Hyunjae Kim, Hyeon Hwang, Jiwoo Lee, Sihyeon Park, Dain Kim, Taewhoo Lee, Chanwoong Yoon, Jiwoong Sohn, Donghee Choi, Jaewoo Kang

While recent advancements in commercial large language models (LM) have shown promising results in medical tasks, their closed-source nature poses significant privacy and security concerns, hindering their widespread use in the medical field. Despite efforts to create open-source models, their limited parameters often result in insufficient multi-step reasoning capabilities required for solving complex medical problems. To address this, we introduce Meerkat-7B, a novel medical AI system with 7 billion parameters. Meerkat-7B was trained using our new synthetic dataset consisting of high-quality chain-of-thought reasoning paths sourced from 18 medical textbooks, along with diverse instruction-following datasets. Our system achieved remarkable accuracy across seven medical benchmarks, surpassing GPT-3.5 by 13.1%, as well as outperforming the previous best 7B models such as MediTron-7B and BioMistral-7B by 13.4% and 9.8%, respectively. Notably, it surpassed the passing threshold of the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) for the first time for a 7B-parameter model. Additionally, our system offered more detailed free-form responses to clinical queries compared to existing 7B and 13B models, approaching the performance level of GPT-3.5. This significantly narrows the performance gap with large LMs, showcasing its effectiveness in addressing complex medical challenges.

------------

`[2404.00399] Aurora-M: The First Open Source Multilingual Language Model Red-teamed according to the U.S. Executive Order <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00399>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:38:54 GMT
    Taishi Nakamura, Mayank Mishra, Simone Tedeschi, Yekun Chai, Jason T Stillerman, Felix Friedrich, Prateek Yadav, Tanmay Laud, Vu Minh Chien, Terry Yue Zhuo, Diganta Misra, Ben Bogin, Xuan-Son Vu, Marzena Karpinska, Arnav Varma Dantuluri, Wojciech Kusa, Tommaso Furlanello, Rio Yokota, Niklas Muennighoff, Suhas Pai, Tosin Adewumi, Veronika Laippala, Xiaozhe Yao, Adalberto Junior, Alpay Ariyak, Aleksandr Drozd, Jordan Clive, Kshitij Gupta, Liangyu Chen, Qi Sun, Ken Tsui, Noah Persaud, Nour Fahmy, Tianlong Chen, Mohit Bansal, Nicolo Monti, Tai Dang, Ziyang Luo, Tien-Tung Bui, Roberto Navigli, Virendra Mehta, Matthew Blumberg, Victor May, Huu Nguyen, Sampo Pyysalo

Pretrained language models underpin several AI applications, but their high computational cost for training limits accessibility. Initiatives such as BLOOM and StarCoder aim to democratize access to pretrained models for collaborative community development. However, such existing models face challenges: limited multilingual capabilities, continual pretraining causing catastrophic forgetting, whereas pretraining from scratch is computationally expensive, and compliance with AI safety and development laws. This paper presents Aurora-M, a 15B parameter multilingual open-source model trained on English, Finnish, Hindi, Japanese, Vietnamese, and code. Continually pretrained from StarCoderPlus on 435 billion additional tokens, Aurora-M surpasses 2 trillion tokens in total training token count. It is the first open-source multilingual model fine-tuned on human-reviewed safety instructions, thus aligning its development not only with conventional red-teaming considerations, but also with the specific concerns articulated in the Biden-Harris Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence. Aurora-M is rigorously evaluated across various tasks and languages, demonstrating robustness against catastrophic forgetting and outperforming alternatives in multilingual settings, particularly in safety evaluations. To promote responsible open-source LLM development, Aurora-M and its variants are released at https://huggingface.co/collections/aurora-m/aurora-m-models-65fdfdff62471e09812f5407 .

------------

`[2404.00415] CoDa: Constrained Generation based Data Augmentation for Low-Resource NLP <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00415>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:47:06 GMT
    Chandra Kiran Reddy Evuru and Sreyan Ghosh and Sonal Kumar and Ramaneswaran S and Utkarsh Tyagi and Dinesh Manocha

We present CoDa (Constrained Generation based Data Augmentation), a controllable, effective, and training-free data augmentation technique for low-resource (data-scarce) NLP. Our approach is based on prompting off-the-shelf instruction-following Large Language Models (LLMs) for generating text that satisfies a set of constraints. Precisely, we extract a set of simple constraints from every instance in the low-resource dataset and verbalize them to prompt an LLM to generate novel and diverse training instances. Our findings reveal that synthetic data that follows simple constraints in the downstream dataset act as highly effective augmentations, and CoDa can achieve this without intricate decoding-time constrained generation techniques or fine-tuning with complex algorithms that eventually make the model biased toward the small number of training instances. Additionally, CoDa is the first framework that provides users explicit control over the augmentation generation process, thereby also allowing easy adaptation to several domains. We demonstrate the effectiveness of CoDa across 11 datasets spanning 3 tasks and 3 low-resource settings. CoDa outperforms all our baselines, qualitatively and quantitatively, with improvements of 0.12%-7.19%. Code is available here: https://github.com/Sreyan88/CoDa

------------

`[2404.00450] Planning and Editing What You Retrieve for Enhanced Tool Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00450>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 18:41:51 GMT
    Tenghao Huang, Dongwon Jung, Muhao Chen

Recent advancements in integrating external tools with Large Language Models (LLMs) have opened new frontiers, with applications in mathematical reasoning, code generators, and smart assistants. However, existing methods, relying on simple one-time retrieval strategies, fall short on effectively and accurately shortlisting relevant tools. This paper introduces a novel \modelname (\modelmeaning) approach, encompassing ``Plan-and-Retrieve (P\&R)'' and ``Edit-and-Ground (E\&G)'' paradigms. The P\&R paradigm consists of a neural retrieval module for shortlisting relevant tools and an LLM-based query planner that decomposes complex queries into actionable tasks, enhancing the effectiveness of tool utilization. The E\&G paradigm utilizes LLMs to enrich tool descriptions based on user scenarios, bridging the gap between user queries and tool functionalities. Experiment results demonstrate that these paradigms significantly improve the recall and NDCG in tool retrieval tasks, significantly surpassing current state-of-the-art models.

------------

`[2404.00457] MetaIE: Distilling a Meta Model from LLM for All Kinds of Information Extraction Tasks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00457>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 19:43:45 GMT
    Letian Peng, Zilong Wang, Feng Yao, Zihan Wang, Jingbo Shang

Information extraction (IE) is a fundamental area in natural language processing where prompting large language models (LLMs), even with in-context examples, cannot defeat small LMs tuned on very small IE datasets. We observe that IE tasks, such as named entity recognition and relation extraction, all focus on extracting important information, which can be formalized as a label-to-span matching. In this paper, we propose a novel framework MetaIE to build a small LM as meta-model by learning to extract "important information", i.e., the meta-understanding of IE, so that this meta-model can be adapted to all kind of IE tasks effectively and efficiently. Specifically, MetaIE obtains the small LM via a symbolic distillation from an LLM following the label-to-span scheme. We construct the distillation dataset via sampling sentences from language model pre-training datasets (e.g., OpenWebText in our implementation) and prompting an LLM to identify the typed spans of "important information". We evaluate the meta-model under the few-shot adaptation setting.
Extensive results on 13 datasets from 6 IE tasks confirm that MetaIE can offer a better starting point for few-shot tuning on IE datasets and outperform other meta-models from (1) vanilla language model pre-training, (2) multi-IE-task pre-training with human annotations, and (3) single-IE-task symbolic distillation from LLM. Moreover, we provide comprehensive analyses of MetaIE, such as the size of the distillation dataset, the meta-model architecture, and the size of the meta-model.

------------

`[2404.00459] NumeroLogic: Number Encoding for Enhanced LLMs' Numerical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00459>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 19:46:59 GMT
    Eli Schwartz, Leshem Choshen, Joseph Shtok, Sivan Doveh, Leonid Karlinsky, Assaf Arbelle

Language models struggle with handling numerical data and performing arithmetic operations. We hypothesize that this limitation can be partially attributed to non-intuitive textual numbers representation. When a digit is read or generated by a causal language model it does not know its place value (e.g. thousands vs. hundreds) until the entire number is processed. To address this issue, we propose a simple adjustment to how numbers are represented by including the count of digits before each number. For instance, instead of "42", we suggest using "{2:42}" as the new format. This approach, which we term NumeroLogic, offers an added advantage in number generation by serving as a Chain of Thought (CoT). By requiring the model to consider the number of digits first, it enhances the reasoning process before generating the actual number.
We use arithmetic tasks to demonstrate the effectiveness of the NumeroLogic formatting. We further demonstrate NumeroLogic applicability to general natural language modeling, improving language understanding performance in the MMLU benchmark.

------------

`[2404.00484] Edinburgh Clinical NLP at SemEval-2024 Task 2: Fine-tune your model unless you have access to GPT-4 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00484>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 22:27:21 GMT
    Aryo Pradipta Gema, Giwon Hong, Pasquale Minervini, Luke Daines, Beatrice Alex

The NLI4CT task assesses Natural Language Inference systems in predicting whether hypotheses entail or contradict evidence from Clinical Trial Reports.
In this study, we evaluate various Large Language Models (LLMs) with multiple strategies, including Chain-of-Thought, In-Context Learning, and Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT). We propose a PEFT method to improve the consistency of LLMs by merging adapters that were fine-tuned separately using triplet and language modelling objectives. We found that merging the two PEFT adapters improves the F1 score (+0.0346) and consistency (+0.152) of the LLMs.
However, our novel methods did not produce more accurate results than GPT-4 in terms of faithfulness and consistency. Averaging the three metrics, GPT-4 ranks joint-first in the competition with 0.8328. Finally, our contamination analysis with GPT-4 indicates that there was no test data leakage.

------------

`[2404.00486] Dialectical Alignment: Resolving the Tension of 3H and Security Threats of LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00486>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 22:41:05 GMT
    Shu Yang, Jiayuan Su, Han Jiang, Mengdi Li, Keyuan Cheng, Muhammad Asif Ali, Lijie Hu, and Di Wang

With the rise of large language models (LLMs), ensuring they embody the principles of being helpful, honest, and harmless (3H), known as Human Alignment, becomes crucial. While existing alignment methods like RLHF, DPO, etc., effectively fine-tune LLMs to match preferences in the preference dataset, they often lead LLMs to highly receptive human input and external evidence, even when this information is poisoned. This leads to a tendency for LLMs to be Adaptive Chameleons when external evidence conflicts with their parametric memory. This exacerbates the risk of LLM being attacked by external poisoned data, which poses a significant security risk to LLM system applications such as Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). To address the challenge, we propose a novel framework: Dialectical Alignment (DA), which (1) utilizes AI feedback to identify optimal strategies for LLMs to navigate inter-context conflicts and context-memory conflicts with different external evidence in context window (i.e., different ratios of poisoned factual contexts); (2) constructs the SFT dataset as well as the preference dataset based on the AI feedback and strategies above; (3) uses the above datasets for LLM alignment to defense poisoned context attack while preserving the effectiveness of in-context knowledge editing. Our experiments show that the dialectical alignment model improves poisoned data attack defense by 20 and does not require any additional prompt engineering or prior declaration of ``you may be attacked`` to the LLMs' context window.

------------

`[2404.00489] PROMPT-SAW: Leveraging Relation-Aware Graphs for Textual Prompt Compression <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00489>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 23:07:58 GMT
    Muhammad Asif Ali, Zhengping Li, Shu Yang, Keyuan Cheng, Yang Cao, Tianhao Huang, Lijie Hu, Lu Yu, and Di Wang

Large language models (LLMs) have shown exceptional abilities for multiple different natural language processing tasks. While prompting is a crucial tool for LLM inference, we observe that there is a significant cost associated with exceedingly lengthy prompts. Existing attempts to compress lengthy prompts lead to sub-standard results in terms of readability and interpretability of the compressed prompt, with a detrimental impact on prompt utility. To address this, we propose PROMPT-SAW: Prompt compresSion via Relation AWare graphs, an effective strategy for prompt compression over task-agnostic and task-aware prompts. PROMPT-SAW uses the prompt's textual information to build a graph, later extracts key information elements in the graph to come up with the compressed prompt. We also propose GSM8K-AUG, i.e., an extended version of the existing GSM8k benchmark for task-agnostic prompts in order to provide a comprehensive evaluation platform. Experimental evaluation using benchmark datasets shows that prompts compressed by PROMPT-SAW are not only better in terms of readability, but they also outperform the best-performing baseline models by up to 14.3 and 13.7 respectively for task-aware and task-agnostic settings while compressing the original prompt text by 33.0 and 56.7.

------------

`[2404.00492] Multi-hop Question Answering under Temporal Knowledge Editing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00492>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 23:22:51 GMT
    Keyuan Cheng, Gang Lin, Haoyang Fei, Yuxuan zhai, Lu Yu, Muhammad Asif Ali, Lijie Hu, and Di Wang

Multi-hop question answering (MQA) under knowledge editing (KE) has garnered significant attention in the era of large language models. However, existing models for MQA under KE exhibit poor performance when dealing with questions containing explicit temporal contexts. To address this limitation, we propose a novel framework, namely TEMPoral knowLEdge augmented Multi-hop Question Answering (TEMPLE-MQA). Unlike previous methods, TEMPLE-MQA first constructs a time-aware graph (TAG) to store edit knowledge in a structured manner. Then, through our proposed inference path, structural retrieval, and joint reasoning stages, TEMPLE-MQA effectively discerns temporal contexts within the question query. Experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that TEMPLE-MQA significantly outperforms baseline models. Additionally, we contribute a new dataset, namely TKEMQA, which serves as the inaugural benchmark tailored specifically for MQA with temporal scopes.

------------

`[2404.00495] Configurable Safety Tuning of Language Models with Synthetic Preference Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00495>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 23:28:05 GMT
    Victor Gallego

State-of-the-art language model fine-tuning techniques, such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), restrict user control by hard-coding predefined behaviors into the model. To address this, we propose a novel method, Configurable Safety Tuning (CST), that augments DPO using synthetic preference data to facilitate flexible safety configuration of LLMs at inference time. CST overcomes the constraints of vanilla DPO by introducing a system prompt specifying safety configurations, enabling LLM deployers to disable/enable safety preferences based on their need, just changing the system prompt. Our experimental evaluations indicate that CST successfully manages different safety configurations and retains the original functionality of LLMs, showing it is a robust method for configurable deployment. Data and models available at https://github.com/vicgalle/configurable-safety-tuning

------------

`[2404.00530] Comparing Bad Apples to Good Oranges: Aligning Large Language Models via Joint Preference Optimization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00530>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 02:05:40 GMT
    Hritik Bansal, Ashima Suvarna, Gantavya Bhatt, Nanyun Peng, Kai-Wei Chang, Aditya Grover

A common technique for aligning large language models (LLMs) relies on acquiring human preferences by comparing multiple generations conditioned on a fixed context. This only leverages the pairwise comparisons when the generations are placed in an identical context. However, such conditional rankings often fail to capture the complex and multidimensional aspects of human preferences. In this work, we revisit the traditional paradigm of preference acquisition and propose a new axis that is based on eliciting preferences jointly over the instruction-response pairs. While prior preference optimizations are designed for conditional ranking protocols (e.g., DPO), our proposed preference acquisition protocol introduces DOVE, a new preference optimization objective that upweights the joint probability of the chosen instruction-response pair over the rejected instruction-response pair.
Interestingly, we find that the LLM trained with joint instruction-response preference data using DOVE outperforms the LLM trained with DPO by 5.2% and 3.3% win-rate for the summarization and open-ended dialogue datasets, respectively. Our findings reveal that joint preferences over instruction and response pairs can significantly enhance the alignment of LLMs by tapping into a broader spectrum of human preference elicitation. The data and code is available at https://github.com/Hritikbansal/dove.

------------

`[2404.00557] DivTOD: Unleashing the Power of LLMs for Diversifying Task-Oriented Dialogue Representations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00557>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 04:36:57 GMT
    Weihao Zeng, Dayuan Fu, Keqing He, Yejie Wang, Yukai Xu, Weiran Xu

Language models pre-trained on general text have achieved impressive results in diverse fields. Yet, the distinct linguistic characteristics of task-oriented dialogues (TOD) compared to general text limit the practical utility of existing language models. Current task-oriented dialogue pre-training methods overlook the one-to-many property of conversations, where multiple responses can be appropriate given the same conversation context. In this paper, we propose a novel dialogue pre-training model called DivTOD, which collaborates with LLMs to learn diverse task-oriented dialogue representations.
DivTOD guides LLMs in transferring diverse knowledge to smaller models while removing domain knowledge that contradicts task-oriented dialogues. Experiments show that our model outperforms strong TOD baselines on various downstream dialogue tasks and learns the intrinsic diversity of task-oriented dialogues.

------------

`[2404.00570] ParaICL: Towards Robust Parallel In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00570>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 05:56:15 GMT
    Xingxuan Li, Xuan-Phi Nguyen, Shafiq Joty, Lidong Bing

Large language models (LLMs) have become the norm in natural language processing (NLP), excelling in few-shot in-context learning (ICL) with their remarkable abilities. Nonetheless, the success of ICL largely hinges on the choice of few-shot demonstration examples, making the selection process increasingly crucial. Existing methods have delved into optimizing the quantity and semantic similarity of these examples to improve ICL performances. However, our preliminary experiments indicate that the effectiveness of ICL is limited by the length of the input context. Moreover, varying combinations of few-shot demonstration examples can significantly boost accuracy across different test samples. To address this, we propose a novel method named parallel in-context learning (ParaICL) that effectively utilizes all demonstration examples without exceeding the manageable input context length. ParaICL employs parallel batching to distribute demonstration examples into different batches according to the semantic similarities of the questions in the demonstrations to the test question. It then computes normalized batch semantic scores for each batch. A weighted average semantic objective, constrained by adaptive plausibility, is applied to select the most appropriate tokens. Through extensive experiments, we validate the effectiveness of ParaICL and conduct ablation studies to underscore its design rationale. We further demonstrate that ParaICL can seamlessly integrate with existing methods.

------------

`[2404.00599] EvoCodeBench: An Evolving Code Generation Benchmark Aligned with Real-World Code Repositories <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00599>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 08:10:50 GMT
    Jia Li, Ge Li, Xuanming Zhang, Yihong Dong, Zhi Jin

How to evaluate Large Language Models (LLMs) in code generation is an open question. Existing benchmarks demonstrate poor alignment with real-world code repositories and are insufficient to evaluate the coding abilities of LLMs.
This paper proposes a new benchmark - EvoCodeBench to address the preceding problems, which has three primary advances. (1) EvoCodeBench aligns with real-world repositories in multiple dimensions, e.g., code distributions and dependency distributions. (2) EvoCodeBench offers comprehensive annotations (e.g., requirements, reference code, and reference dependencies), and robust evaluation metrics (e.g., Pass@k and Recall@k). (3) EvoCodeBench is an evolving benchmark to avoid data leakage. We build an automatic pipeline to update EvoCodeBench from the latest repositories. We release the first version - EvoCodeBench-2403, containing 275 samples from 25 real-world repositories.
Based on EvoCodeBench, we propose repository-level code generation and evaluate 10 popular LLMs (e.g., gpt-4, gpt-3.5, DeepSeek Coder, StarCoder 2, CodeLLaMa, Gemma, and Qwen 1.5). Our experiments reveal the coding abilities of these LLMs in real-world repositories. For example, the highest Pass@1 of gpt-4 only is 20.73% in our experiments. We also analyze failed cases and summarize the shortcomings of existing LLMs in EvoCodeBench. We release EvoCodeBench, all prompts, and LLMs' completions for further community analysis.

------------

`[2404.00604] Extensive Self-Contrast Enables Feedback-Free Language Model Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00604>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 08:30:15 GMT
    Xiao Liu, Xixuan Song, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has been a central technique for recent large language model (LLM) alignment. However, its heavy dependence on costly human or LLM-as-Judge preference feedback could stymie its wider applications. In this work, we introduce Self-Contrast, a feedback-free large language model alignment method via exploiting extensive self-generated negatives. With only supervised fine-tuning (SFT) targets, Self-Contrast leverages the LLM itself to generate massive diverse candidates, and harnesses a pre-trained embedding model to filter multiple negatives according to text similarity. Theoretically, we illustrate that in this setting, merely scaling negative responses can still effectively approximate situations with more balanced positive and negative preference annotations. Our experiments with direct preference optimization (DPO) on three datasets show that, Self-Contrast could consistently outperform SFT and standard DPO training by large margins.
And as the number of self-generated negatives increases, the performance of Self-Contrast continues to grow. Code and data are available at https://github.com/THUDM/Self-Contrast.

------------

`[2404.00610] RQ-RAG: Learning to Refine Queries for Retrieval Augmented Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00610>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 08:58:54 GMT
    Chi-Min Chan, Chunpu Xu, Ruibin Yuan, Hongyin Luo, Wei Xue, Yike Guo, Jie Fu

Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable capabilities but are prone to generating inaccurate or hallucinatory responses. This limitation stems from their reliance on vast pretraining datasets, making them susceptible to errors in unseen scenarios. To tackle these challenges, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) addresses this by incorporating external, relevant documents into the response generation process, thus leveraging non-parametric knowledge alongside LLMs' in-context learning abilities. However, existing RAG implementations primarily focus on initial input for context retrieval, overlooking the nuances of ambiguous or complex queries that necessitate further clarification or decomposition for accurate responses. To this end, we propose learning to Refine Query for Retrieval Augmented Generation (RQ-RAG) in this paper, endeavoring to enhance the model by equipping it with capabilities for explicit rewriting, decomposition, and disambiguation. Our experimental results indicate that our method, when applied to a 7B Llama2 model, surpasses the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) by an average of 1.9\% across three single-hop QA datasets, and also demonstrates enhanced performance in handling complex, multi-hop QA datasets. Our code is available at https://github.com/chanchimin/RQ-RAG.

------------

`[2404.00614] Learning to Plan for Language Modeling from Unlabeled Data <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00614>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 09:04:01 GMT
    Nathan Cornille, Marie-Francine Moens and Florian Mai

By training to predict the next token in an unlabeled corpus, large language models learn to perform many tasks without any labeled data. However, their next-token-prediction objective arguably limits their performance in scenarios that require planning, such as writing a coherent article. In this paper, we train a module for planning the future writing process via a self-supervised learning objective. By conditioning on generated latent plans, our model extends the successful language model formula to more abstract planning in an unsupervised way. Empirically, we demonstrate that our method improves language modeling performance in general, particularly with respect to the text structure. Because our framework uses a planner module that is unsupervised and external to the language model, new planner modules can be trained at large scale and easily be shared with the community.

------------

`[2404.00656] WavLLM: Towards Robust and Adaptive Speech Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00656>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 12:01:32 GMT
    Shujie Hu, Long Zhou, Shujie Liu, Sanyuan Chen, Hongkun Hao, Jing Pan, Xunying Liu, Jinyu Li, Sunit Sivasankaran, Linquan Liu, Furu Wei

The recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized the field of natural language processing, progressively broadening their scope to multimodal perception and generation. However, effectively integrating listening capabilities into LLMs poses significant challenges, particularly with respect to generalizing across varied contexts and executing complex auditory tasks. In this work, we introduce WavLLM, a robust and adaptive speech large language model with dual encoders, and a prompt-aware LoRA weight adapter, optimized by a two-stage curriculum learning approach. Leveraging dual encoders, we decouple different types of speech information, utilizing a Whisper encoder to process the semantic content of speech, and a WavLM encoder to capture the unique characteristics of the speaker's identity. Within the curriculum learning framework, WavLLM first builds its foundational capabilities by optimizing on mixed elementary single tasks, followed by advanced multi-task training on more complex tasks such as combinations of the elementary tasks. To enhance the flexibility and adherence to different tasks and instructions, a prompt-aware LoRA weight adapter is introduced in the second advanced multi-task training stage. We validate the proposed model on universal speech benchmarks including tasks such as ASR, ST, SV, ER, and also apply it to specialized datasets like Gaokao English listening comprehension set for SQA, and speech Chain-of-Thought (CoT) evaluation set. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed model achieves state-of-the-art performance across a range of speech tasks on the same model size, exhibiting robust generalization capabilities in executing complex tasks using CoT approach.
Furthermore, our model successfully completes Gaokao tasks without specialized training. The codes, models, audio, and Gaokao evaluation set can be accessed at \url{aka.ms/wavllm}.

------------

`[2404.00681] CoUDA: Coherence Evaluation via Unified Data Augmentation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00681>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 13:19:36 GMT
    Dawei Zhu, Wenhao Wu, Yifan Song, Fangwei Zhu, Ziqiang Cao, Sujian Li

Coherence evaluation aims to assess the organization and structure of a discourse, which remains challenging even in the era of large language models.
Due to the scarcity of annotated data, data augmentation is commonly used for training coherence evaluation models. However, previous augmentations for this task primarily rely on heuristic rules, lacking designing criteria as guidance.
In this paper, we take inspiration from linguistic theory of discourse structure, and propose a data augmentation framework named CoUDA. CoUDA breaks down discourse coherence into global and local aspects, and designs augmentation strategies for both aspects, respectively. Especially for local coherence, we propose a novel generative strategy for constructing augmentation samples, which involves post-pretraining a generative model and applying two controlling mechanisms to control the difficulty of generated samples. During inference, CoUDA also jointly evaluates both global and local aspects to comprehensively assess the overall coherence of a discourse. Extensive experiments in coherence evaluation show that, with only 233M parameters, CoUDA achieves state-of-the-art performance in both pointwise scoring and pairwise ranking tasks, even surpassing recent GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 based metrics.

------------

`[2404.00699] How Much are LLMs Contaminated? A Comprehensive Survey and the LLMSanitize Library <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00699>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 14:32:02 GMT
    Mathieu Ravaut, Bosheng Ding, Fangkai Jiao, Hailin Chen, Xingxuan Li, Ruochen Zhao, Chengwei Qin, Caiming Xiong, Shafiq Joty

With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) in recent years, new opportunities are emerging, but also new challenges, and contamination is quickly becoming critical. Business applications and fundraising in AI have reached a scale at which a few percentage points gained on popular question-answering benchmarks could translate into dozens of millions of dollars, placing high pressure on model integrity. At the same time, it is becoming harder and harder to keep track of the data that LLMs have seen; if not impossible with closed-source models like GPT-4 and Claude-3 not divulging any information on the training set. As a result, contamination becomes a critical issue: LLMs' performance may not be reliable anymore, as the high performance may be at least partly due to their previous exposure to the data.
This limitation jeopardizes the entire progress in the field of NLP, yet, there remains a lack of methods on how to efficiently address contamination, or a clear consensus on prevention, mitigation and classification of contamination.
In this paper, we survey all recent work on contamination with LLMs, and help the community track contamination levels of LLMs by releasing an open-source Python library named LLMSanitize implementing major contamination detection algorithms, which link is: https://github.com/ntunlp/LLMSanitize.

------------

`[2404.00750] Can Language Models Recognize Convincing Arguments? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00750>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 17:38:33 GMT
    Paula Rescala, Manoel Horta Ribeiro, Tiancheng Hu, Robert West

The remarkable and ever-increasing capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) have raised concerns about their potential misuse for creating personalized, convincing misinformation and propaganda. To gain insights into LLMs' persuasive capabilities without directly engaging in experimentation with humans, we propose studying their performance on the related task of detecting convincing arguments. We extend a dataset by Durmus & Cardie (2018) with debates, votes, and user traits and propose tasks measuring LLMs' ability to (1) distinguish between strong and weak arguments, (2) predict stances based on beliefs and demographic characteristics, and (3) determine the appeal of an argument to an individual based on their traits. We show that LLMs perform on par with humans in these tasks and that combining predictions from different LLMs yields significant performance gains, even surpassing human performance.
The data and code released with this paper contribute to the crucial ongoing effort of continuously evaluating and monitoring the rapidly evolving capabilities and potential impact of LLMs.

------------

`[2404.00826] Extracting Social Determinants of Health from Pediatric Patient Notes Using Large Language Models: Novel Corpus and Methods <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00826>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 23:37:18 GMT
    Yujuan Fu, Giridhar Kaushik Ramachandran, Nicholas J Dobbins, Namu Park, Michael Leu, Abby R. Rosenberg, Kevin Lybarger, Fei Xia, Ozlem Uzuner, Meliha Yetisgen

Social determinants of health (SDoH) play a critical role in shaping health outcomes, particularly in pediatric populations where interventions can have long-term implications. SDoH are frequently studied in the Electronic Health Record (EHR), which provides a rich repository for diverse patient data. In this work, we present a novel annotated corpus, the Pediatric Social History Annotation Corpus (PedSHAC), and evaluate the automatic extraction of detailed SDoH representations using fine-tuned and in-context learning methods with Large Language Models (LLMs). PedSHAC comprises annotated social history sections from 1,260 clinical notes obtained from pediatric patients within the University of Washington (UW) hospital system. Employing an event-based annotation scheme, PedSHAC captures ten distinct health determinants to encompass living and economic stability, prior trauma, education access, substance use history, and mental health with an overall annotator agreement of 81.9 F1. Our proposed fine-tuning LLM-based extractors achieve high performance at 78.4 F1 for event arguments. In-context learning approaches with GPT-4 demonstrate promise for reliable SDoH extraction with limited annotated examples, with extraction performance at 82.3 F1 for event triggers.

------------

`[2404.00828] PID Control-Based Self-Healing to Improve the Robustness of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00828>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 23:46:51 GMT
    Zhuotong Chen, Zihu Wang, Yifan Yang, Qianxiao Li, Zheng Zhang

Despite the effectiveness of deep neural networks in numerous natural language processing applications, recent findings have exposed the vulnerability of these language models when minor perturbations are introduced.
While appearing semantically indistinguishable to humans, these perturbations can significantly reduce the performance of well-trained language models, raising concerns about the reliability of deploying them in safe-critical situations. In this work, we construct a computationally efficient self-healing process to correct undesired model behavior during online inference when perturbations are applied to input data. This is formulated as a trajectory optimization problem in which the internal states of the neural network layers are automatically corrected using a PID (Proportional-Integral-Derivative) control mechanism. The P controller targets immediate state adjustments, while the I and D controllers consider past states and future dynamical trends, respectively. We leverage the geometrical properties of the training data to design effective linear PID controllers. This approach reduces the computational cost to that of using just the P controller, instead of the full PID control. Further, we introduce an analytical method for approximating the optimal control solutions, enhancing the real-time inference capabilities of this controlled system. Moreover, we conduct a theoretical error analysis of the analytic solution in a simplified setting. The proposed PID control-based self-healing is a low cost framework that improves the robustness of pre-trained large language models, whether standard or robustly trained, against a wide range of perturbations. A detailed implementation can be found in:https://github.com/zhuotongchen/PID-Control-Based-Self-Healing-to-Improve-the-Robustness-of-Large-Language-Models.

------------

`[2404.00862] Bailong: Bilingual Transfer Learning based on QLoRA and Zip-tie Embedding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00862>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:04:44 GMT
    Lung-Chuan Chen and Zong-Ru Li

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional performance in various NLP applications. However, the majority of existing open-source LLMs are pre-trained primarily on English data and little part of other languages.
This deficiency in multilingual training data results in suboptimal performance when applied to languages with fewer available resources. Furthermore, enhancing the performance of LLMs on low-resource languages by full-parameter fine-tuning with additional data requires substantial computational resources, posing computational barriers for research organizations and individual researchers. Consequently, several techniques such as parameter-efficient tuning and advanced embedding initialization have been proposed to address these challenges. In this work, we combine them to facilitate cross-lingual transfer on English-dominated open-source LLM. To effectively enhance the model's proficiency in Traditional Chinese, we conduct secondary pre-training on Llama 2 7B with Traditional Chinese data by leveraging QLoRA and our proposed zip-tie embedding initialization. The resulting model called Bailong, which stands for Bilingual trAnsfer learnIng based on qLOra and zip-tie embeddiNG. We present Bailong-instruct 7B, a fine-tuned version of Bailong 7B optimized for multi-turn dialogue scenarios. Recognizing the inadequacy of benchmark datasets in Traditional Chinese, we further introduce Bailong-bench to assess the alignment of models with human preferences and the capability to follow instructions in both Traditional Chinese and English tasks. In our evaluation, Bailong-instruct 7B exhibits competitive performance on Bailong-bench and other benchmark datasets when compared to other open-source models of similar or even larger parameter sizes. Bailong-instruct 7B and Bailong-bench are publicly available with the aim of empowering the community to build upon our efforts.

------------

`[2404.00884] Self-Demos: Eliciting Out-of-Demonstration Generalizability in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00884>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:25:06 GMT
    Wei He, Shichun Liu, Jun Zhao, Yiwen Ding, Yi Lu, Zhiheng Xi, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, Xuanjing Huang

Large language models (LLMs) have shown promising abilities of in-context learning (ICL), adapting swiftly to new tasks with only few-shot demonstrations. However, current few-shot methods heavily depend on high-quality, query-specific demos, which are often lacking. When faced with out-of-demonstration (OOD) queries, methods that rely on hand-crafted demos or external retrievers might fail. To bridge the gap between limited demos and OOD queries, we propose Self-Demos, a novel prompting method that elicits the inherent generalizability in LLMs by query-aware demo generation. The generated demos strategically interpolate between existing demos and the given query, transforming the query from OOD to ID. To evaluate the effectiveness of our approach, we manually constructed OOD-Toolset, a dataset in the tool-using scenario with over 300 real-world APIs and 1000 instances, each consisting of three tool-use cases as demos and an OOD query. Thorough experiments on our dataset and two public math benchmarks have shown that our method can outperform state-of-the-art baselines in the OOD setting. Moreover, we conduct a range of analyses to validate Self-Demos's generalization and provide more insights.

------------

`[2404.00899] TM-TREK at SemEval-2024 Task 8: Towards LLM-Based Automatic Boundary Detection for Human-Machine Mixed Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00899>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:54:42 GMT
    Xiaoyan Qu and Xiangfeng Meng

With the increasing prevalence of text generated by large language models (LLMs), there is a growing concern about distinguishing between LLM-generated and human-written texts in order to prevent the misuse of LLMs, such as the dissemination of misleading information and academic dishonesty. Previous research has primarily focused on classifying text as either entirely human-written or LLM-generated, neglecting the detection of mixed texts that contain both types of content. This paper explores LLMs' ability to identify boundaries in human-written and machine-generated mixed texts. We approach this task by transforming it into a token classification problem and regard the label turning point as the boundary. Notably, our ensemble model of LLMs achieved first place in the 'Human-Machine Mixed Text Detection' sub-task of the SemEval'24 Competition Task 8. Additionally, we investigate factors that influence the capability of LLMs in detecting boundaries within mixed texts, including the incorporation of extra layers on top of LLMs, combination of segmentation loss, and the impact of pretraining. Our findings aim to provide valuable insights for future research in this area.

------------

`[2404.00914] Token-Efficient Leverage Learning in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00914>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:39:44 GMT
    Yuanhao Zeng, Min Wang, Yihang Wang, Yingxia Shao

Large Language Models (LLMs) have excelled in various tasks but perform better in high-resource scenarios, which presents challenges in low-resource scenarios. Data scarcity and the inherent difficulty of adapting LLMs to specific tasks compound the challenge. To address the twin hurdles, we introduce \textbf{Leverage Learning}. We present a streamlined implement of this methodology called Token-Efficient Leverage Learning (TELL). TELL showcases the potential of Leverage Learning, demonstrating effectiveness across various LLMs and low-resource tasks, ranging from $10^4$ to $10^6$ tokens. It reduces task data requirements by up to nearly an order of magnitude compared to conventional Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) while delivering competitive performance. With the same amount of task data, TELL leads in improving task performance compared to SFT. We discuss the mechanism of Leverage Learning, suggesting it aligns with quantization hypothesis and explore its promising potential through empirical testing.

------------

`[2404.00929] A Survey on Multilingual Large Language Models: Corpora, Alignment, and Bias <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00929>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:13:56 GMT
    Yuemei Xu, Ling Hu, Jiayi Zhao, Zihan Qiu, Yuqi Ye, Hanwen Gu

Based on the foundation of Large Language Models (LLMs), Multilingual Large Language Models (MLLMs) have been developed to address the challenges of multilingual natural language processing tasks, hoping to achieve knowledge transfer from high-resource to low-resource languages. However, significant limitations and challenges still exist, such as language imbalance, multilingual alignment, and inherent bias. In this paper, we aim to provide a comprehensive analysis of MLLMs, delving deeply into discussions surrounding these critical issues. First of all, we start by presenting an overview of MLLMs, covering their evolution, key techniques, and multilingual capacities.
Secondly, we explore widely utilized multilingual corpora for MLLMs' training and multilingual datasets oriented for downstream tasks that are crucial for enhancing the cross-lingual capability of MLLMs. Thirdly, we survey the existing studies on multilingual representations and investigate whether the current MLLMs can learn a universal language representation. Fourthly, we discuss bias on MLLMs including its category and evaluation metrics, and summarize the existing debiasing techniques. Finally, we discuss existing challenges and point out promising research directions. By demonstrating these aspects, this paper aims to facilitate a deeper understanding of MLLMs and their potentiality in various domains.

------------

`[2404.00930] PSYDIAL: Personality-based Synthetic Dialogue Generation using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00930>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:19:34 GMT
    Ji-Eun Han, Jun-Seok Koh, Hyeon-Tae Seo, Du-Seong Chang, Kyung-Ah Sohn

We present a novel end-to-end personality-based synthetic dialogue data generation pipeline, specifically designed to elicit responses from large language models via prompting. We design the prompts to generate more human-like dialogues considering real-world scenarios when users engage with chatbots. We introduce PSYDIAL, the first Korean dialogue dataset focused on personality-based dialogues, curated using our proposed pipeline. Notably, we focus on the Extraversion dimension of the Big Five personality model in our research. Experimental results indicate that while pre-trained models and those fine-tuned with a chit-chat dataset struggle to generate responses reflecting personality, models trained with PSYDIAL show significant improvements. The versatility of our pipeline extends beyond dialogue tasks, offering potential for other non-dialogue related applications. This research opens doors for more nuanced, personality-driven conversational AI in Korean and potentially other languages. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/jiSilverH/psydial.

------------

`[2404.00934] ChatGLM-RLHF: Practices of Aligning Large Language Models with Human Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00934>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:39:36 GMT
    Zhenyu Hou, Yiin Niu, Zhengxiao Du, Xiaohan Zhang, Xiao Liu, Aohan Zeng, Qinkai Zheng, Minlie Huang, Hongning Wang, Jie Tang, Yuxiao Dong

ChatGLM is a free-to-use AI service powered by the ChatGLM family of large language models (LLMs). In this paper, we present the ChatGLM-RLHF pipeline -- a reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) system -- designed to enhance ChatGLM's alignment with human preferences. ChatGLM-RLHF encompasses three major components: the collection of human preference data, the training of the reward model, and the optimization of policies. Throughout the process of integrating ChatGLM-RLHF into production, we encountered and addressed several unprecedented challenges. We introduce the strategies to mitigate reward variance for stabilized large-scale training, implement model parallelism with fused gradient-descent, and design regularization constraints to avoid catastrophic forgetting in LLMs. Experiments show that ChatGLM-RLHF brings significant improvements in alignment tasks compared to the supervised fine-tuned (SFT) version of ChatGLM. For instance, it achieves on average 15\% more wins against ChatGLM-SFT in Chinese alignment tasks. The work presents our practices of aligning LLMs with human preferences, offering insights into the challenges and solutions in RLHF implementations.

------------

`[2404.00942] Evaluating the Factuality of Large Language Models using Large-Scale Knowledge Graphs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00942>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 06:01:17 GMT
    Xiaoze Liu, Feijie Wu, Tianyang Xu, Zhuo Chen, Yichi Zhang, Xiaoqian Wang, Jing Gao

The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly transformed the AI landscape, enhancing machine learning and AI capabilities. Factuality issue is a critical concern for LLMs, as they may generate factually incorrect responses. In this paper, we propose GraphEval to evaluate an LLM's performance using a substantially large test dataset. Specifically, the test dataset is retrieved from a large knowledge graph with more than 10 million facts without expensive human efforts. Unlike conventional methods that evaluate LLMs based on generated responses, GraphEval streamlines the evaluation process by creating a judge model to estimate the correctness of the answers given by the LLM. Our experiments demonstrate that the judge model's factuality assessment aligns closely with the correctness of the LLM's generated outputs, while also substantially reducing evaluation costs. Besides, our findings offer valuable insights into LLM performance across different metrics and highlight the potential for future improvements in ensuring the factual integrity of LLM outputs. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/xz-liu/GraphEval.

------------

`[2404.00943] Evalverse: Unified and Accessible Library for Large Language Model Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00943>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 06:03:39 GMT
    Jihoo Kim, Wonho Song, Dahyun Kim, Yunsu Kim, Yungi Kim, Chanjun Park

This paper introduces Evalverse, a novel library that streamlines the evaluation of Large Language Models (LLMs) by unifying disparate evaluation tools into a single, user-friendly framework. Evalverse enables individuals with limited knowledge of artificial intelligence to easily request LLM evaluations and receive detailed reports, facilitated by an integration with communication platforms like Slack. Thus, Evalverse serves as a powerful tool for the comprehensive assessment of LLMs, offering both researchers and practitioners a centralized and easily accessible evaluation framework.
Finally, we also provide a demo video for Evalverse, showcasing its capabilities and implementation in a two-minute format.

------------

`[2404.00950] AISPACE at SemEval-2024 task 8: A Class-balanced Soft-voting System for Detecting Multi-generator Machine-generated Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00950>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 06:25:47 GMT
    Renhua Gu and Xiangfeng Meng

SemEval-2024 Task 8 provides a challenge to detect human-written and machine-generated text. There are 3 subtasks for different detection scenarios.
This paper proposes a system that mainly deals with Subtask B. It aims to detect if given full text is written by human or is generated by a specific Large Language Model (LLM), which is actually a multi-class text classification task. Our team AISPACE conducted a systematic study of fine-tuning transformer-based models, including encoderonly, decoder-only and encoder-decoder models. We compared their performance on this task and identified that encoder-only models performed exceptionally well. We also applied a weighted Cross Entropy loss function to address the issue of data imbalance of different class samples. Additionally, we employed softvoting strategy over multi-models ensemble to enhance the reliability of our predictions. Our system ranked top 1 in Subtask B, which sets a state-of-the-art benchmark for this new challenge.

------------

`[2404.00978] Prior Constraints-based Reward Model Training for Aligning Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00978>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:49:11 GMT
    Hang Zhou, Chenglong Wang, Yimin Hu, Tong Xiao, Chunliang Zhang and Jingbo Zhu

Reinforcement learning with human feedback for aligning large language models (LLMs) trains a reward model typically using ranking loss with comparison pairs.However, the training procedure suffers from an inherent problem: the uncontrolled scaling of reward scores during reinforcement learning due to the lack of constraints while training the reward model.This paper proposes a Prior Constraints-based Reward Model (namely PCRM) training method to mitigate this problem. PCRM incorporates prior constraints, specifically, length ratio and cosine similarity between outputs of each comparison pair, during reward model training to regulate optimization magnitude and control score margins. We comprehensively evaluate PCRM by examining its rank correlation with human preferences and its effectiveness in aligning LLMs via RL. Experimental results demonstrate that PCRM significantly improves alignment performance by effectively constraining reward score scaling. As another bonus, our method is easily integrated into arbitrary rank-based alignment methods, such as direct preference optimization, and can yield consistent improvement.

------------

`[2404.00990] Exploring the Nexus of Large Language Models and Legal Systems: A Short Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00990>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 08:35:56 GMT
    Weicong Qin, Zhongxiang Sun

With the advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Large Language Models (LLMs), there is a profound transformation occurring in the realm of natural language processing tasks within the legal domain. The capabilities of LLMs are increasingly demonstrating unique roles in the legal sector, bringing both distinctive benefits and various challenges. This survey delves into the synergy between LLMs and the legal system, such as their applications in tasks like legal text comprehension, case retrieval, and analysis. Furthermore, this survey highlights key challenges faced by LLMs in the legal domain, including bias, interpretability, and ethical considerations, as well as how researchers are addressing these issues. The survey showcases the latest advancements in fine-tuned legal LLMs tailored for various legal systems, along with legal datasets available for fine-tuning LLMs in various languages. Additionally, it proposes directions for future research and development.

------------

`[2404.00998] LLM-RadJudge: Achieving Radiologist-Level Evaluation for X-Ray Report Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00998>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:02:12 GMT
    Zilong Wang, Xufang Luo, Xinyang Jiang, Dongsheng Li, Lili Qiu

Evaluating generated radiology reports is crucial for the development of radiology AI, but existing metrics fail to reflect the task's clinical requirements. This study proposes a novel evaluation framework using large language models (LLMs) to compare radiology reports for assessment. We compare the performance of various LLMs and demonstrate that, when using GPT-4, our proposed metric achieves evaluation consistency close to that of radiologists.
Furthermore, to reduce costs and improve accessibility, making this method practical, we construct a dataset using LLM evaluation results and perform knowledge distillation to train a smaller model. The distilled model achieves evaluation capabilities comparable to GPT-4. Our framework and distilled model offer an accessible and efficient evaluation method for radiology report generation, facilitating the development of more clinically relevant models.
The model will be further open-sourced and accessible.

------------

`[2404.01019] Source-Aware Training Enables Knowledge Attribution in Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01019>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:39:38 GMT
    Muhammad Khalifa, David Wadden, Emma Strubell, Honglak Lee, Lu Wang, Iz Beltagy, Hao Peng

Large language models (LLMs) learn a vast amount of knowledge during pretraining, but they are often oblivious to the source(s) of such knowledge.
We investigate the problem of intrinsic source citation, where LLMs are required to cite the pretraining source supporting a generated response.
Intrinsic source citation can enhance LLM transparency, interpretability, and verifiability. To give LLMs such ability, we explore source-aware training -- a post pretraining recipe that involves (i) training the LLM to associate unique source document identifiers with the knowledge in each document, followed by (ii) an instruction-tuning to teach the LLM to cite a supporting pretraining source when prompted. Source-aware training can easily be applied to pretrained LLMs off the shelf, and diverges minimally from existing pretraining/fine-tuning frameworks. Through experiments on carefully curated data, we demonstrate that our training recipe can enable faithful attribution to the pretraining data without a substantial impact on the model's quality compared to standard pretraining. Our results also highlight the importance of data augmentation in achieving attribution.

------------

`[2404.01037] ARAGOG: Advanced RAG Output Grading <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01037>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 10:43:52 GMT
    Matou\v{s} Eibich, Shivay Nagpal, Alexander Fred-Ojala

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is essential for integrating external knowledge into Large Language Model (LLM) outputs. While the literature on RAG is growing, it primarily focuses on systematic reviews and comparisons of new state-of-the-art (SoTA) techniques against their predecessors, with a gap in extensive experimental comparisons. This study begins to address this gap by assessing various RAG methods' impacts on retrieval precision and answer similarity. We found that Hypothetical Document Embedding (HyDE) and LLM reranking significantly enhance retrieval precision. However, Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) and Cohere rerank did not exhibit notable advantages over a baseline Naive RAG system, and Multi-query approaches underperformed. Sentence Window Retrieval emerged as the most effective for retrieval precision, despite its variable performance on answer similarity. The study confirms the potential of the Document Summary Index as a competent retrieval approach. All resources related to this research are publicly accessible for further investigation through our GitHub repository ARAGOG (https://github.com/predlico/ARAGOG). We welcome the community to further this exploratory study in RAG systems.

------------

`[2404.01054] Regularized Best-of-N Sampling to Mitigate Reward Hacking for Language Model Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01054>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 11:26:50 GMT
    Yuu Jinnai, Tetsuro Morimura, Kaito Ariu, Kenshi Abe

Best-of-N (BoN) sampling with a reward model has been shown to be an effective strategy for aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) to human preferences at the time of decoding. BoN sampling is susceptible to a problem known as reward hacking. Because the reward model is an imperfect proxy for the true objective, over-optimizing its value can compromise its performance on the true objective. A common solution to prevent reward hacking in preference learning techniques is to optimize a reward using proximity regularization (e.g., KL regularization), which ensures that the language model remains close to the reference model. In this research, we propose Regularized Best-of-N (RBoN), a variant of BoN that aims to mitigate reward hacking by incorporating a proximity term in response selection, similar to preference learning techniques. We evaluate two variants of RBoN on the AlpacaFarm dataset and find that they outperform BoN, especially when the proxy reward model has a low correlation with the true objective.

------------

`[2404.01077] Efficient Prompting Methods for Large Language Models: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01077>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 12:19:08 GMT
    Kaiyan Chang, Songcheng Xu, Chenglong Wang, Yingfeng Luo, Tong Xiao and Jingbo Zhu

Prompting has become a mainstream paradigm for adapting large language models (LLMs) to specific natural language processing tasks. While this approach opens the door to in-context learning of LLMs, it brings the additional computational burden of model inference and human effort of manual-designed prompts, particularly when using lengthy and complex prompts to guide and control the behavior of LLMs. As a result, the LLM field has seen a remarkable surge in efficient prompting methods. In this paper, we present a comprehensive overview of these methods. At a high level, efficient prompting methods can broadly be categorized into two approaches: prompting with efficient computation and prompting with efficient design. The former involves various ways of compressing prompts, and the latter employs techniques for automatic prompt optimization. We present the basic concepts of prompting, review the advances for efficient prompting, and highlight future research directions.

------------

`[2404.01129] Structured Information Matters: Incorporating Abstract Meaning Representation into LLMs for Improved Open-Domain Dialogue Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01129>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 14:11:45 GMT
    Bohao Yang, Kun Zhao, Chen Tang, Liang Zhan, Chenghua Lin

Automatic open-domain dialogue evaluation has attracted increasing attention.
Trainable evaluation metrics are commonly trained with true positive and randomly selected negative responses, resulting in a tendency for them to assign a higher score to the responses that share higher content similarity with a given context. However, adversarial negative responses possess high content similarity with the contexts whilst being semantically different.
Therefore, existing evaluation metrics are not robust enough to evaluate such responses, resulting in low correlations with human judgments. While recent studies have shown some efficacy in utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) for open-domain dialogue evaluation, they still encounter challenges in effectively handling adversarial negative examples. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective framework for open-domain dialogue evaluation, which combines domain-specific language models (SLMs) with LLMs. The SLMs can explicitly incorporate Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) graph information of the dialogue through a gating mechanism for enhanced semantic representation learning. The evaluation result of SLMs and AMR graph information are plugged into the prompt of LLM, for the enhanced in-context learning performance.
Experimental results on open-domain dialogue evaluation tasks demonstrate the superiority of our method compared to a wide range of state-of-the-art baselines, especially in discriminating adversarial negative responses. Our code is available at https://github.com/Bernard-Yang/SIMAMR.

------------

`[2404.01147] Do LLMs Find Human Answers To Fact-Driven Questions Perplexing? A Case Study on Reddit <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01147>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 14:46:20 GMT
    Parker Seegmiller, Joseph Gatto, Omar Sharif, Madhusudan Basak and Sarah Masud Preum

Large language models (LLMs) have been shown to be proficient in correctly answering questions in the context of online discourse. However, the study of using LLMs to model human-like answers to fact-driven social media questions is still under-explored. In this work, we investigate how LLMs model the wide variety of human answers to fact-driven questions posed on several topic-specific Reddit communities, or subreddits. We collect and release a dataset of 409 fact-driven questions and 7,534 diverse, human-rated answers from 15 r/Ask{Topic} communities across 3 categories: profession, social identity, and geographic location. We find that LLMs are considerably better at modeling highly-rated human answers to such questions, as opposed to poorly-rated human answers. We present several directions for future research based on our initial findings.

------------

`[2404.01157] Green AI: Exploring Carbon Footprints, Mitigation Strategies, and Trade Offs in Large Language Model Training <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01157>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:01:45 GMT
    Vivian Liu, Yiqiao Yin

Prominent works in the field of Natural Language Processing have long attempted to create new innovative models by improving upon previous model training approaches, altering model architecture, and developing more in-depth datasets to better their performance. However, with the quickly advancing field of NLP comes increased greenhouse gas emissions, posing concerns over the environmental damage caused by training LLMs. Gaining a comprehensive understanding of the various costs, particularly those pertaining to environmental aspects, that are associated with artificial intelligence serves as the foundational basis for ensuring safe AI models. Currently, investigations into the CO2 emissions of AI models remain an emerging area of research, and as such, in this paper, we evaluate the CO2 emissions of well-known large language models, which have an especially high carbon footprint due to their significant amount of model parameters. We argue for the training of LLMs in a way that is responsible and sustainable by suggesting measures for reducing carbon emissions. Furthermore, we discuss how the choice of hardware affects CO2 emissions by contrasting the CO2 emissions during model training for two widely used GPUs. Based on our results, we present the benefits and drawbacks of our proposed solutions and make the argument for the possibility of training more environmentally safe AI models without sacrificing their robustness and performance.

------------

`[2404.01165] LITE: Modeling Environmental Ecosystems with Multimodal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01165>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:14:07 GMT
    Haoran Li, Junqi Liu, Zexian Wang, Shiyuan Luo, Xiaowei Jia, Huaxiu Yao

The modeling of environmental ecosystems plays a pivotal role in the sustainable management of our planet. Accurate prediction of key environmental variables over space and time can aid in informed policy and decision-making, thus improving people's livelihood. Recently, deep learning-based methods have shown promise in modeling the spatial-temporal relationships for predicting environmental variables. However, these approaches often fall short in handling incomplete features and distribution shifts, which are commonly observed in environmental data due to the substantial cost of data collection and malfunctions in measuring instruments. To address these issues, we propose LITE -- a multimodal large language model for environmental ecosystems modeling.
Specifically, LITE unifies different environmental variables by transforming them into natural language descriptions and line graph images. Then, LITE utilizes unified encoders to capture spatial-temporal dynamics and correlations in different modalities. During this step, the incomplete features are imputed by a sparse Mixture-of-Experts framework, and the distribution shift is handled by incorporating multi-granularity information from past observations. Finally, guided by domain instructions, a language model is employed to fuse the multimodal representations for the prediction. Our experiments demonstrate that LITE significantly enhances performance in environmental spatial-temporal prediction across different domains compared to the best baseline, with a 41.25% reduction in prediction error. This justifies its effectiveness. Our data and code are available at https://github.com/hrlics/LITE.

------------

`[2404.01189] Generating Faithful and Complete Hospital-Course Summaries from the Electronic Health Record <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01189>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:47:21 GMT
    Griffin Adams

The rapid adoption of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) has been instrumental in streamlining administrative tasks, increasing transparency, and enabling continuity of care across providers. An unintended consequence of the increased documentation burden, however, has been reduced face-time with patients and, concomitantly, a dramatic rise in clinician burnout. In this thesis, we pinpoint a particularly time-intensive, yet critical, documentation task: generating a summary of a patient's hospital admissions, and propose and evaluate automated solutions. In Chapter 2, we construct a dataset based on 109,000 hospitalizations (2M source notes) and perform exploratory analyses to motivate future work on modeling and evaluation [NAACL 2021]. In Chapter 3, we address faithfulness from a modeling perspective by revising noisy references [EMNLP 2022] and, to reduce the reliance on references, directly calibrating model outputs to metrics [ACL 2023]. These works relied heavily on automatic metrics as human annotations were limited. To fill this gap, in Chapter 4, we conduct a fine-grained expert annotation of system errors in order to meta-evaluate existing metrics and better understand task-specific issues of domain adaptation and source-summary alignments. To learn a metric less correlated to extractiveness (copy-and-paste), we derive noisy faithfulness labels from an ensemble of existing metrics and train a faithfulness classifier on these pseudo labels [MLHC 2023]. Finally, in Chapter 5, we demonstrate that fine-tuned LLMs (Mistral and Zephyr) are highly prone to entity hallucinations and cover fewer salient entities. We improve both coverage and faithfulness by performing sentence-level entity planning based on a set of pre-computed salient entities from the source text, which extends our work on entity-guided news summarization [ACL, 2023], [EMNLP, 2023].

------------

`[2404.01204] The Fine Line: Navigating Large Language Model Pretraining with Down-streaming Capability Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01204>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:00:01 GMT
    Chen Yang, Junzhuo Li, Xinyao Niu, Xinrun Du, Songyang Gao, Haoran Zhang, Zhaoliang Chen, Xingwei Qu, Ruibin Yuan, Yizhi Li, Jiaheng Liu, Stephen W. Huang, Shawn Yue, Wenhu Chen, Jie Fu, Ge Zhang

Uncovering early-stage metrics that reflect final model performance is one core principle for large-scale pretraining. The existing scaling law demonstrates the power-law correlation between pretraining loss and training flops, which serves as an important indicator of the current training state for large language models. However, this principle only focuses on the model's compression properties on the training data, resulting in an inconsistency with the ability improvements on the downstream tasks. Some follow-up works attempted to extend the scaling-law to more complex metrics (such as hyperparameters), but still lacked a comprehensive analysis of the dynamic differences among various capabilities during pretraining. To address the aforementioned limitations, this paper undertakes a comprehensive comparison of model capabilities at various pretraining intermediate checkpoints. Through this analysis, we confirm that specific downstream metrics exhibit similar training dynamics across models of different sizes, up to 67 billion parameters. In addition to our core findings, we've reproduced Amber and OpenLLaMA, releasing their intermediate checkpoints. This initiative offers valuable resources to the research community and facilitates the verification and exploration of LLM pretraining by open-source researchers. Besides, we provide empirical summaries, including performance comparisons of different models and capabilities, and tuition of key metrics for different training phases. Based on these findings, we provide a more user-friendly strategy for evaluating the optimization state, offering guidance for establishing a stable pretraining process.

------------

`[2404.01230] LLM as a Mastermind: A Survey of Strategic Reasoning with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01230>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:50:54 GMT
    Yadong Zhang, Shaoguang Mao, Tao Ge, Xun Wang, Adrian de Wynter, Yan Xia, Wenshan Wu, Ting Song, Man Lan, Furu Wei

This paper presents a comprehensive survey of the current status and opportunities for Large Language Models (LLMs) in strategic reasoning, a sophisticated form of reasoning that necessitates understanding and predicting adversary actions in multi-agent settings while adjusting strategies accordingly. Strategic reasoning is distinguished by its focus on the dynamic and uncertain nature of interactions among multi-agents, where comprehending the environment and anticipating the behavior of others is crucial. We explore the scopes, applications, methodologies, and evaluation metrics related to strategic reasoning with LLMs, highlighting the burgeoning development in this area and the interdisciplinary approaches enhancing their decision-making performance. It aims to systematize and clarify the scattered literature on this subject, providing a systematic review that underscores the importance of strategic reasoning as a critical cognitive capability and offers insights into future research directions and potential improvements.

------------

`[2404.01247] An image speaks a thousand words, but can everyone listen? On translating images for cultural relevance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01247>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:08:50 GMT
    Simran Khanuja, Sathyanarayanan Ramamoorthy, Yueqi Song, Graham Neubig

Given the rise of multimedia content, human translators increasingly focus on culturally adapting not only words but also other modalities such as images to convey the same meaning. While several applications stand to benefit from this, machine translation systems remain confined to dealing with language in speech and text. In this work, we take a first step towards translating images to make them culturally relevant. First, we build three pipelines comprising state-of-the-art generative models to do the task. Next, we build a two-part evaluation dataset: i) concept: comprising 600 images that are cross-culturally coherent, focusing on a single concept per image, and ii) application: comprising 100 images curated from real-world applications. We conduct a multi-faceted human evaluation of translated images to assess for cultural relevance and meaning preservation. We find that as of today, image-editing models fail at this task, but can be improved by leveraging LLMs and retrievers in the loop. Best pipelines can only translate 5% of images for some countries in the easier concept dataset and no translation is successful for some countries in the application dataset, highlighting the challenging nature of the task. Our code and data is released here: https://github.com/simran-khanuja/image-transcreation.

------------

`[2404.01253] UniArk: Improving Generalisation and Consistency for Factual Knowledge Extraction through Debiasing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01253>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:22:07 GMT
    Yijun Yang, Jie He, Pinzhen Chen, V\'ictor Guti\'errez-Basulto, Jeff Z. Pan

Several recent papers have investigated the potential of language models as knowledge bases as well as the existence of severe biases when extracting factual knowledge. In this work, we focus on the factual probing performance over unseen prompts from tuning, and using a probabilistic view we show the inherent misalignment between pre-training and downstream tuning objectives in language models for probing knowledge. We hypothesize that simultaneously debiasing these objectives can be the key to generalisation over unseen prompts. We propose an adapter-based framework, UniArk, for generalised and consistent factual knowledge extraction through simple methods without introducing extra parameters. Extensive experiments show that UniArk can significantly improve the model's out-of-domain generalisation as well as consistency under various prompts. Additionally, we construct ParaTrex, a large-scale and diverse dataset for measuring the inconsistency and out-of-domain generation of models. Further, ParaTrex offers a reference method for constructing paraphrased datasets using large language models.

------------

`[2404.01261] FABLES: Evaluating faithfulness and content selection in book-length summarization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01261>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:33:38 GMT
    Yekyung Kim, Yapei Chang, Marzena Karpinska, Aparna Garimella, Varun Manjunatha, Kyle Lo, Tanya Goyal, Mohit Iyyer

While long-context large language models (LLMs) can technically summarize book-length documents (>100K tokens), the length and complexity of the documents have so far prohibited evaluations of input-dependent aspects like faithfulness. In this paper, we conduct the first large-scale human evaluation of faithfulness and content selection on LLM-generated summaries of fictional books. Our study mitigates the issue of data contamination by focusing on summaries of books published in 2023 or 2024, and we hire annotators who have fully read each book prior to the annotation task to minimize cost and cognitive burden. We collect FABLES, a dataset of annotations on 3,158 claims made in LLM-generated summaries of 26 books, at a cost of $5.2K USD, which allows us to rank LLM summarizers based on faithfulness: Claude-3-Opus significantly outperforms all closed-source LLMs, while the open-source Mixtral is on par with GPT-3.5-Turbo. An analysis of the annotations reveals that most unfaithful claims relate to events and character states, and they generally require indirect reasoning over the narrative to invalidate. While LLM-based auto-raters have proven reliable for factuality and coherence in other settings, we implement several LLM raters of faithfulness and find that none correlates strongly with human annotations, especially with regard to detecting unfaithful claims. Our experiments suggest that detecting unfaithful claims is an important future direction not only for summarization evaluation but also as a testbed for long-context understanding. Finally, we move beyond faithfulness by exploring content selection errors in book-length summarization: we develop a typology of omission errors related to crucial narrative elements and also identify a systematic over-emphasis on events occurring towards the end of the book.

------------

`[2404.01268] Mapping the Increasing Use of LLMs in Scientific Papers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01268>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:45:15 GMT
    Weixin Liang, Yaohui Zhang, Zhengxuan Wu, Haley Lepp, Wenlong Ji, Xuandong Zhao, Hancheng Cao, Sheng Liu, Siyu He, Zhi Huang, Diyi Yang, Christopher Potts, Christopher D Manning, James Y. Zou

Scientific publishing lays the foundation of science by disseminating research findings, fostering collaboration, encouraging reproducibility, and ensuring that scientific knowledge is accessible, verifiable, and built upon over time. Recently, there has been immense speculation about how many people are using large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT in their academic writing, and to what extent this tool might have an effect on global scientific practices. However, we lack a precise measure of the proportion of academic writing substantially modified or produced by LLMs. To address this gap, we conduct the first systematic, large-scale analysis across 950,965 papers published between January 2020 and February 2024 on the arXiv, bioRxiv, and Nature portfolio journals, using a population-level statistical framework to measure the prevalence of LLM-modified content over time. Our statistical estimation operates on the corpus level and is more robust than inference on individual instances. Our findings reveal a steady increase in LLM usage, with the largest and fastest growth observed in Computer Science papers (up to 17.5%). In comparison, Mathematics papers and the Nature portfolio showed the least LLM modification (up to 6.3%). Moreover, at an aggregate level, our analysis reveals that higher levels of LLM-modification are associated with papers whose first authors post preprints more frequently, papers in more crowded research areas, and papers of shorter lengths. Our findings suggests that LLMs are being broadly used in scientific writings.

------------

`[2404.01288] Large Language Models are Capable of Offering Cognitive Reappraisal, if Guided <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01288>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:56:30 GMT
    Hongli Zhan, Allen Zheng, Yoon Kyung Lee, Jina Suh, Junyi Jessy Li, Desmond C. Ong

Large language models (LLMs) have offered new opportunities for emotional support, and recent work has shown that they can produce empathic responses to people in distress. However, long-term mental well-being requires emotional self-regulation, where a one-time empathic response falls short. This work takes a first step by engaging with cognitive reappraisals, a strategy from psychology practitioners that uses language to targetedly change negative appraisals that an individual makes of the situation; such appraisals is known to sit at the root of human emotional experience. We hypothesize that psychologically grounded principles could enable such advanced psychology capabilities in LLMs, and design RESORT which consists of a series of reappraisal constitutions across multiple dimensions that can be used as LLM instructions. We conduct a first-of-its-kind expert evaluation (by clinical psychologists with M.S. or Ph.D. degrees) of an LLM's zero-shot ability to generate cognitive reappraisal responses to medium-length social media messages asking for support. This fine-grained evaluation showed that even LLMs at the 7B scale guided by RESORT are capable of generating empathic responses that can help users reappraise their situations.

------------

`[2404.01295] Towards Safety and Helpfulness Balanced Responses via Controllable Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01295>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:59:06 GMT
    Yi-Lin Tuan, Xilun Chen, Eric Michael Smith, Louis Martin, Soumya Batra, Asli Celikyilmaz, William Yang Wang, Daniel M. Bikel

As large language models (LLMs) become easily accessible nowadays, the trade-off between safety and helpfulness can significantly impact user experience. A model that prioritizes safety will cause users to feel less engaged and assisted while prioritizing helpfulness will potentially cause harm. Possible harms include teaching people how to build a bomb, exposing youth to inappropriate content, and hurting users' mental health. In this work, we propose to balance safety and helpfulness in diverse use cases by controlling both attributes in LLM. We explore training-free and fine-tuning methods that do not require extra human annotations and analyze the challenges of controlling safety and helpfulness in LLMs. Our experiments demonstrate that our method can rewind a learned model and unlock its controllability.

------------

`[2404.00282] Survey on Large Language Model-Enhanced Reinforcement Learning: Concept, Taxonomy, and Methods <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00282>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 08:28:08 GMT
    Yuji Cao, Huan Zhao, Yuheng Cheng, Ting Shu, Guolong Liu, Gaoqi Liang, Junhua Zhao, Yun Li

With extensive pre-trained knowledge and high-level general capabilities, large language models (LLMs) emerge as a promising avenue to augment reinforcement learning (RL) in aspects such as multi-task learning, sample efficiency, and task planning. In this survey, we provide a comprehensive review of the existing literature in $\textit{LLM-enhanced RL}$ and summarize its characteristics compared to conventional RL methods, aiming to clarify the research scope and directions for future studies. Utilizing the classical agent-environment interaction paradigm, we propose a structured taxonomy to systematically categorize LLMs' functionalities in RL, including four roles: information processor, reward designer, decision-maker, and generator.
Additionally, for each role, we summarize the methodologies, analyze the specific RL challenges that are mitigated, and provide insights into future directions. Lastly, potential applications, prospective opportunities and challenges of the $\textit{LLM-enhanced RL}$ are discussed.

------------

`[2404.00456] QuaRot: Outlier-Free 4-Bit Inference in Rotated LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00456>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 19:20:06 GMT
    Saleh Ashkboos, Amirkeivan Mohtashami, Maximilian L. Croci, Bo Li, Martin Jaggi, Dan Alistarh, Torsten Hoefler, James Hensman

We introduce QuaRot, a new Quantization scheme based on Rotations, which is able to quantize LLMs end-to-end, including all weights, activations, and KV cache in 4 bits. QuaRot rotates LLMs in a way that removes outliers from the hidden state without changing the output, making quantization easier. This computational invariance is applied to the hidden state (residual) of the LLM, as well as to the activations of the feed-forward components, aspects of the attention mechanism and to the KV cache. The result is a quantized model where all matrix multiplications are performed in 4-bits, without any channels identified for retention in higher precision. Our quantized LLaMa2-70B model has losses of at most 0.29 WikiText-2 perplexity and retains 99% of the zero-shot performance. Code is available at: https://github.com/spcl/QuaRot.

------------

`[2404.00462] Zero-shot Safety Prediction for Autonomous Robots with Foundation World Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00462>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 20:03:49 GMT
    Zhenjiang Mao, Siqi Dai, Yuang Geng and Ivan Ruchkin

A world model creates a surrogate world to train a controller and predict safety violations by learning the internal dynamic model of systems. However, the existing world models rely solely on statistical learning of how observations change in response to actions, lacking precise quantification of how accurate the surrogate dynamics are, which poses a significant challenge in safety-critical systems. To address this challenge, we propose foundation world models that embed observations into meaningful and causally latent representations. This enables the surrogate dynamics to directly predict causal future states by leveraging a training-free large language model. In two common benchmarks, this novel model outperforms standard world models in the safety prediction task and has a performance comparable to supervised learning despite not using any data. We evaluate its performance with a more specialized and system-relevant metric by comparing estimated states instead of aggregating observation-wide error.

------------

`[2404.00589] Harnessing the Power of Large Language Model for Uncertainty Aware Graph Processing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00589>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 07:38:39 GMT
    Zhenyu Qian, Yiming Qian, Yuting Song, Fei Gao, Hai Jin, Chen Yu, Xia Xie

Handling graph data is one of the most difficult tasks. Traditional techniques, such as those based on geometry and matrix factorization, rely on assumptions about the data relations that become inadequate when handling large and complex graph data. On the other hand, deep learning approaches demonstrate promising results in handling large graph data, but they often fall short of providing interpretable explanations. To equip the graph processing with both high accuracy and explainability, we introduce a novel approach that harnesses the power of a large language model (LLM), enhanced by an uncertainty-aware module to provide a confidence score on the generated answer. We experiment with our approach on two graph processing tasks: few-shot knowledge graph completion and graph classification. Our results demonstrate that through parameter efficient fine-tuning, the LLM surpasses state-of-the-art algorithms by a substantial margin across ten diverse benchmark datasets. Moreover, to address the challenge of explainability, we propose an uncertainty estimation based on perturbation, along with a calibration scheme to quantify the confidence scores of the generated answers. Our confidence measure achieves an AUC of 0.8 or higher on seven out of the ten datasets in predicting the correctness of the answer generated by LLM.

------------

`[2404.00776] PyTorch Frame: A Modular Framework for Multi-Modal Tabular Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00776>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:15:09 GMT
    Weihua Hu, Yiwen Yuan, Zecheng Zhang, Akihiro Nitta, Kaidi Cao, Vid Kocijan, Jure Leskovec, Matthias Fey

We present PyTorch Frame, a PyTorch-based framework for deep learning over multi-modal tabular data. PyTorch Frame makes tabular deep learning easy by providing a PyTorch-based data structure to handle complex tabular data, introducing a model abstraction to enable modular implementation of tabular models, and allowing external foundation models to be incorporated to handle complex columns (e.g., LLMs for text columns). We demonstrate the usefulness of PyTorch Frame by implementing diverse tabular models in a modular way, successfully applying these models to complex multi-modal tabular data, and integrating our framework with PyTorch Geometric, a PyTorch library for Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), to perform end-to-end learning over relational databases.

------------

`[2404.00848] Predictive Performance Comparison of Decision Policies Under Confounding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00848>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 01:27:07 GMT
    Luke Guerdan, Amanda Coston, Kenneth Holstein, Zhiwei Steven Wu

Predictive models are often introduced to decision-making tasks under the rationale that they improve performance over an existing decision-making policy. However, it is challenging to compare predictive performance against an existing decision-making policy that is generally under-specified and dependent on unobservable factors. These sources of uncertainty are often addressed in practice by making strong assumptions about the data-generating mechanism. In this work, we propose a method to compare the predictive performance of decision policies under a variety of modern identification approaches from the causal inference and off-policy evaluation literatures (e.g., instrumental variable, marginal sensitivity model, proximal variable). Key to our method is the insight that there are regions of uncertainty that we can safely ignore in the policy comparison. We develop a practical approach for finite-sample estimation of regret intervals under no assumptions on the parametric form of the status quo policy. We verify our framework theoretically and via synthetic data experiments. We conclude with a real-world application using our framework to support a pre-deployment evaluation of a proposed modification to a healthcare enrollment policy.

------------

`[2404.01041] Can LLMs get help from other LLMs without revealing private information? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01041>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 10:54:49 GMT
    Florian Hartmann, Duc-Hieu Tran, Peter Kairouz, Victor C\u{a}rbune, Blaise Aguera y Arcas

Cascades are a common type of machine learning systems in which a large, remote model can be queried if a local model is not able to accurately label a user's data by itself. Serving stacks for large language models (LLMs) increasingly use cascades due to their ability to preserve task performance while dramatically reducing inference costs. However, applying cascade systems in situations where the local model has access to sensitive data constitutes a significant privacy risk for users since such data could be forwarded to the remote model. In this work, we show the feasibility of applying cascade systems in such setups by equipping the local model with privacy-preserving techniques that reduce the risk of leaking private information when querying the remote model. To quantify information leakage in such setups, we introduce two privacy measures. We then propose a system that leverages the recently introduced social learning paradigm in which LLMs collaboratively learn from each other by exchanging natural language. Using this paradigm, we demonstrate on several datasets that our methods minimize the privacy loss while at the same time improving task performance compared to a non-cascade baseline.

------------

`[2404.01099] What's in Your "Safe" Data?: Identifying Benign Data that Breaks Safety <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01099>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 13:12:30 GMT
    Luxi He, Mengzhou Xia, Peter Henderson

Current Large Language Models (LLMs), even those tuned for safety and alignment, are susceptible to jailbreaking. Some have found that just further fine-tuning an aligned model with benign data (i.e., data without harmful content) surprisingly leads to substantial degradation in safety. We delve into the data-centric aspects of why benign fine-tuning inadvertently contributes to jailbreaking. First, we represent fine-tuning data through two lenses: representation and gradient spaces. Furthermore, we propose a bi-directional anchoring method that prioritizes data points that are close to harmful examples and distant from benign ones. By doing so, our approach effectively identifies subsets of benign data that are more likely to degrade the model's safety after fine-tuning. Training on just 100 of these seemingly benign datapoints can lead to the fine-tuned model affirmatively responding to > 70% of tested harmful requests, compared to < 20% after fine-tuning on randomly selected data. We further find that selected data are often in the form of lists and bullet points, or math questions.

------------

`[2404.01206] Machine Unlearning for Traditional Models and Large Language Models: A Short Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01206>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:08:18 GMT
    Yi Xu

With the implementation of personal data privacy regulations, the field of machine learning (ML) faces the challenge of the "right to be forgotten".
Machine unlearning has emerged to address this issue, aiming to delete data and reduce its impact on models according to user requests. Despite the widespread interest in machine unlearning, comprehensive surveys on its latest advancements, especially in the field of Large Language Models (LLMs) is lacking. This survey aims to fill this gap by providing an in-depth exploration of machine unlearning, including the definition, classification and evaluation criteria, as well as challenges in different environments and their solutions.
Specifically, this paper categorizes and investigates unlearning on both traditional models and LLMs, and proposes methods for evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of unlearning, and standards for performance measurement. This paper reveals the limitations of current unlearning techniques and emphasizes the importance of a comprehensive unlearning evaluation to avoid arbitrary forgetting. This survey not only summarizes the key concepts of unlearning technology but also points out its prominent issues and feasible directions for future research, providing valuable guidance for scholars in the field.

------------

`[2404.01273] TWIN-GPT: Digital Twins for Clinical Trials via Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01273>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:48:55 GMT
    Yue Wang, Yingzhou Lu, Yinlong Xu, Zihan Ma, Hongxia Xu, Bang Du, Honghao Gao, Jian Wu

Recently, there has been a burgeoning interest in virtual clinical trials, which simulate real-world scenarios and hold the potential to significantly enhance patient safety, expedite development, reduce costs, and contribute to the broader scientific knowledge in healthcare. Existing research often focuses on leveraging electronic health records (EHRs) to support clinical trial outcome prediction. Yet, trained with limited clinical trial outcome data, existing approaches frequently struggle to perform accurate predictions. Some research has attempted to generate EHRs to augment model development but has fallen short in personalizing the generation for individual patient profiles.
Recently, the emergence of large language models has illuminated new possibilities, as their embedded comprehensive clinical knowledge has proven beneficial in addressing medical issues. In this paper, we propose a large language model-based digital twin creation approach, called TWIN-GPT. TWIN-GPT can establish cross-dataset associations of medical information given limited data, generating unique personalized digital twins for different patients, thereby preserving individual patient characteristics. Comprehensive experiments show that using digital twins created by TWIN-GPT can boost clinical trial outcome prediction, exceeding various previous prediction approaches. Besides, we also demonstrate that TWIN-GPT can generate high-fidelity trial data that closely approximate specific patients, aiding in more accurate result predictions in data-scarce situations. Moreover, our study provides practical evidence for the application of digital twins in healthcare, highlighting its potential significance.

------------

`[2404.00018] Can AI Outperform Human Experts in Creating Social Media Creatives? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00018>`__

::

    Tue, 19 Mar 2024 07:41:45 GMT
    Eunkyung Park, Raymond K. Wong, Junbum Kwon

Artificial Intelligence has outperformed human experts in functional tasks such as chess and baduk. How about creative tasks? This paper evaluates AI's capability in the creative domain compared to human experts, which little research has been conducted so far. We propose a novel Prompt-for-Prompt to generate social media creatives via prompt augmentation by Large Language Models. We take the most popular Instagram posts (with the biggest number of like clicks) in top brands' Instagram accounts to create social media creatives. We give GPT 4 several prompt instructions with text descriptions to generate the most effective prompts for cutting-edge text-to-image generators: Midjourney, DALL E 3, and Stable Diffusion. LLM-augmented prompts can boost AI's abilities by adding objectives, engagement strategy, lighting and brand consistency for social media image creation. We conduct an extensive human evaluation experiment, and find that AI excels human experts, and Midjourney is better than the other text-to-image generators. Surprisingly, unlike conventional wisdom in the social media industry, prompt instruction including eye-catching shows much poorer performance than those including natural.
Regarding the type of creatives, AI improves creatives with animals or products but less with real people. Also, AI improves creatives with short text descriptions more than with long text descriptions, because there is more room for AI to augment prompts with shorter descriptions.

------------

`[2404.00026] Ink and Individuality: Crafting a Personalised Narrative in the Age of LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00026>`__

::

    Wed, 20 Mar 2024 21:02:16 GMT
    Azmine Toushik Wasi and Raima Islam and Rafia Islam

Individuality and personalization comprise the distinctive characteristics that make each writer unique and influence their words in order to effectively engage readers while conveying authenticity. However, our growing reliance on LLM-based writing assistants risks compromising our creativity and individuality over time. We often overlook the negative impacts of this trend on our creativity and uniqueness, despite the possible consequences. This study investigates these concerns by performing a brief survey to explore different perspectives and concepts, as well as trying to understand people's viewpoints, in conjunction with past studies in the area. Addressing these issues is essential for improving human-computer interaction systems and enhancing writing assistants for personalization and individuality.

------------

`[2404.00027] LLMs as Writing Assistants: Exploring Perspectives on Sense of Ownership and Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00027>`__

::

    Wed, 20 Mar 2024 21:06:42 GMT
    Azmine Toushik Wasi and Rafia Islam and Raima Islam

Sense of ownership in writing confines our investment of thoughts, time, and contribution, leading to attachment to the output. However, using writing assistants introduces a mental dilemma, as some content isn't directly our creation. For instance, we tend to credit Large Language Models (LLMs) more in creative tasks, even though all tasks are equal for them. Additionally, while we may not claim complete ownership of LLM-generated content, we freely claim authorship. We conduct a short survey to examine these issues and understand underlying cognitive processes in order to gain a better knowledge of human-computer interaction in writing and improve writing aid systems.

------------

`[2404.00057] PerOS: Personalized Self-Adapting Operating Systems in the Cloud <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00057>`__

::

    Tue, 26 Mar 2024 20:10:31 GMT
    Hongyu H\`e

Operating systems (OSes) are foundational to computer systems, managing hardware resources and ensuring secure environments for diverse applications.
However, despite their enduring importance, the fundamental design objectives of OSes have seen minimal evolution over decades. Traditionally prioritizing aspects like speed, memory efficiency, security, and scalability, these objectives often overlook the crucial aspect of intelligence as well as personalized user experience. The lack of intelligence becomes increasingly critical amid technological revolutions, such as the remarkable advancements in machine learning (ML).
Today's personal devices, evolving into intimate companions for users, pose unique challenges for traditional OSes like Linux and iOS, especially with the emergence of specialized hardware featuring heterogeneous components.
Furthermore, the rise of large language models (LLMs) in ML has introduced transformative capabilities, reshaping user interactions and software development paradigms.
While existing literature predominantly focuses on leveraging ML methods for system optimization or accelerating ML workloads, there is a significant gap in addressing personalized user experiences at the OS level. To tackle this challenge, this work proposes PerOS, a personalized OS ingrained with LLM capabilities. PerOS aims to provide tailored user experiences while safeguarding privacy and personal data through declarative interfaces, self-adaptive kernels, and secure data management in a scalable cloud-centric architecture; therein lies the main research question of this work: How can we develop intelligent, secure, and scalable OSes that deliver personalized experiences to thousands of users?

------------

`[2404.00166] Uncovering Bias in Large Vision-Language Models with Counterfactuals <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00166>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 21:45:53 GMT
    Phillip Howard, Anahita Bhiwandiwalla, Kathleen C. Fraser, Svetlana Kiritchenko

With the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) possessing increasingly impressive capabilities, a number of Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have been proposed to augment LLMs with visual inputs. Such models condition generated text on both an input image and a text prompt, enabling a variety of use cases such as visual question answering and multimodal chat. While prior studies have examined the social biases contained in text generated by LLMs, this topic has been relatively unexplored in LVLMs. Examining social biases in LVLMs is particularly challenging due to the confounding contributions of bias induced by information contained across the text and visual modalities. To address this challenging problem, we conduct a large-scale study of text generated by different LVLMs under counterfactual changes to input images.
Specifically, we present LVLMs with identical open-ended text prompts while conditioning on images from different counterfactual sets, where each set contains images which are largely identical in their depiction of a common subject (e.g., a doctor), but vary only in terms of intersectional social attributes (e.g., race and gender). We comprehensively evaluate the text produced by different LVLMs under this counterfactual generation setting and find that social attributes such as race, gender, and physical characteristics depicted in input images can significantly influence toxicity and the generation of competency-associated words.

------------

`[2404.00413] Language Models are Spacecraft Operators <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00413>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:43:59 GMT
    Victor Rodriguez-Fernandez, Alejandro Carrasco, Jason Cheng, Eli Scharf, Peng Mun Siew, Richard Linares

Recent trends are emerging in the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) as autonomous agents that take actions based on the content of the user text prompts. We intend to apply these concepts to the field of Guidance, Navigation, and Control in space, enabling LLMs to have a significant role in the decision-making process for autonomous satellite operations. As a first step towards this goal, we have developed a pure LLM-based solution for the Kerbal Space Program Differential Games (KSPDG) challenge, a public software design competition where participants create autonomous agents for maneuvering satellites involved in non-cooperative space operations, running on the KSP game engine. Our approach leverages prompt engineering, few-shot prompting, and fine-tuning techniques to create an effective LLM-based agent that ranked 2nd in the competition. To the best of our knowledge, this work pioneers the integration of LLM agents into space research. Code is available at https://github.com/ARCLab-MIT/kspdg.

------------

`[2404.00487] Contextual AI Journaling: Integrating LLM and Time Series Behavioral Sensing Technology to Promote Self-Reflection and Well-being using the MindScape App <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00487>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 23:01:34 GMT
    Subigya Nepal, Arvind Pillai, William Campbell, Talie Massachi, Eunsol Soul Choi, Orson Xu, Joanna Kuc, Jeremy Huckins, Jason Holden, Colin Depp, Nicholas Jacobson, Mary Czerwinski, Eric Granholm, Andrew T. Campbell

MindScape aims to study the benefits of integrating time series behavioral patterns (e.g., conversational engagement, sleep, location) with Large Language Models (LLMs) to create a new form of contextual AI journaling, promoting self-reflection and well-being. We argue that integrating behavioral sensing in LLMs will likely lead to a new frontier in AI. In this Late-Breaking Work paper, we discuss the MindScape contextual journal App design that uses LLMs and behavioral sensing to generate contextual and personalized journaling prompts crafted to encourage self-reflection and emotional development. We also discuss the MindScape study of college students based on a preliminary user study and our upcoming study to assess the effectiveness of contextual AI journaling in promoting better well-being on college campuses. MindScape represents a new application class that embeds behavioral intelligence in AI.

------------

`[2404.00579] A Review of Modern Recommender Systems Using Generative Models (Gen-RecSys) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00579>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 06:57:57 GMT
    Yashar Deldjoo, Zhankui He, Julian McAuley, Anton Korikov, Scott Sanner, Arnau Ramisa, Ren\'e Vidal, Maheswaran Sathiamoorthy, Atoosa Kasirzadeh, Silvia Milano

Traditional recommender systems (RS) have used user-item rating histories as their primary data source, with collaborative filtering being one of the principal methods. However, generative models have recently developed abilities to model and sample from complex data distributions, including not only user-item interaction histories but also text, images, and videos - unlocking this rich data for novel recommendation tasks. Through this comprehensive and multi-disciplinary survey, we aim to connect the key advancements in RS using Generative Models (Gen-RecSys), encompassing: a foundational overview of interaction-driven generative models; the application of large language models (LLM) for generative recommendation, retrieval, and conversational recommendation; and the integration of multimodal models for processing and generating image and video content in RS. Our holistic perspective allows us to highlight necessary paradigms for evaluating the impact and harm of Gen-RecSys and identify open challenges. A more up-to-date version of the papers is maintained at: https://github.com/yasdel/LLM-RecSys.

------------

`[2404.00600] AI Act and Large Language Models (LLMs): When critical issues and privacy impact require human and ethical oversight <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00600>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 08:14:25 GMT
    Nicola Fabiano

The imposing evolution of artificial intelligence systems and, specifically, of Large Language Models (LLM) makes it necessary to carry out assessments of their level of risk and the impact they may have in the area of privacy, personal data protection and at an ethical level, especially on the weakest and most vulnerable. This contribution addresses human oversight, ethical oversight, and privacy impact assessment.

------------

`[2404.00675] LLM meets Vision-Language Models for Zero-Shot One-Class Classification <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00675>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 12:48:07 GMT
    Yassir Bendou, Giulia Lioi, Bastien Pasdeloup, Lukas Mauch, Ghouthi Boukli Hacene, Fabien Cardinaux and Vincent Gripon

We consider the problem of zero-shot one-class visual classification. In this setting, only the label of the target class is available, and the goal is to discriminate between positive and negative query samples without requiring any validation example from the target task. We propose a two-step solution that first queries large language models for visually confusing objects and then relies on vision-language pre-trained models (e.g., CLIP) to perform classification. By adapting large-scale vision benchmarks, we demonstrate the ability of the proposed method to outperform adapted off-the-shelf alternatives in this setting. Namely, we propose a realistic benchmark where negative query samples are drawn from the same original dataset as positive ones, including a granularity-controlled version of iNaturalist, where negative samples are at a fixed distance in the taxonomy tree from the positive ones. Our work shows that it is possible to discriminate between a single category and other semantically related ones using only its label

------------

`[2404.00685] Scaling Properties of Speech Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00685>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 13:30:12 GMT
    Santiago Cuervo, Ricard Marxer

Speech Language Models (SLMs) aim to learn language from raw audio, without textual resources. Despite significant advances, our current models exhibit weak syntax and semantic abilities. However, if the scaling properties of neural language models hold for the speech modality, these abilities will improve as the amount of compute used for training increases. In this paper, we use models of this scaling behavior to estimate the scale at which our current methods will yield a SLM with the English proficiency of text-based Large Language Models (LLMs). We establish a strong correlation between pre-training loss and downstream syntactic and semantic performance in SLMs and LLMs, which results in predictable scaling of linguistic performance. We show that the linguistic performance of SLMs scales up to three orders of magnitude more slowly than that of text-based LLMs. Additionally, we study the benefits of synthetic data designed to boost semantic understanding and the effects of coarser speech tokenization.

------------

`[2404.00725] The Larger the Better? Improved LLM Code-Generation via Budget Reallocation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00725>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 15:55:49 GMT
    Michael Hassid, Tal Remez, Jonas Gehring, Roy Schwartz, Yossi Adi

It is a common belief that large language models (LLMs) are better than smaller-sized ones. However, larger models also require significantly more time and compute during inference. This begs the question: what happens when both models operate under the same budget? (e.g., compute, run-time). To address this question, we analyze code generation LLMs of various sizes and make comparisons such as running a 70B model once vs. generating five outputs from a 13B model and selecting one. Our findings reveal that, in a standard unit-test setup, the repeated use of smaller models can yield consistent improvements, with gains of up to 15% across five tasks. On the other hand, in scenarios where unit-tests are unavailable, a ranking-based selection of candidates from the smaller model falls short of the performance of a single output from larger ones. Our results highlight the potential of using smaller models instead of larger ones, and the importance of studying approaches for ranking LLM outputs.

------------

`[2404.00806] Algorithmic Collusion by Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00806>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 21:43:05 GMT
    Sara Fish, Yannai A. Gonczarowski, Ran I. Shorrer

The rise of algorithmic pricing raises concerns of algorithmic collusion. We conduct experiments with algorithmic pricing agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs), and specifically GPT-4. We find that (1) LLM-based agents are adept at pricing tasks, (2) LLM-based pricing agents autonomously collude in oligopoly settings to the detriment of consumers, and (3) variation in seemingly innocuous phrases in LLM instructions ("prompts") may increase collusion. These results extend to auction settings. Our findings underscore the need for antitrust regulation regarding algorithmic pricing, and uncover regulatory challenges unique to LLM-based pricing agents.

------------

`[2404.00903] Maximizing User Experience with LLMOps-Driven Personalized Recommendation Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00903>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:13:42 GMT
    Chenxi Shi, Penghao Liang, Yichao Wu, Tong Zhan, Zhengyu Jin

The integration of LLMOps into personalized recommendation systems marks a significant advancement in managing LLM-driven applications. This innovation presents both opportunities and challenges for enterprises, requiring specialized teams to navigate the complexity of engineering technology while prioritizing data security and model interpretability. By leveraging LLMOps, enterprises can enhance the efficiency and reliability of large-scale machine learning models, driving personalized recommendations aligned with user preferences. Despite ethical considerations, LLMOps is poised for widespread adoption, promising more efficient and secure machine learning services that elevate user experience and shape the future of personalized recommendation systems.

------------

`[2404.00913] LLaMA-Excitor: General Instruction Tuning via Indirect Feature Interaction <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00913>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:39:21 GMT
    Bo Zou, Chao Yang, Yu Qiao, Chengbin Quan, Youjian Zhao

Existing methods to fine-tune LLMs, like Adapter, Prefix-tuning, and LoRA, which introduce extra modules or additional input sequences to inject new skills or knowledge, may compromise the innate abilities of LLMs. In this paper, we propose LLaMA-Excitor, a lightweight method that stimulates the LLMs' potential to better follow instructions by gradually paying more attention to worthwhile information. Specifically, the LLaMA-Excitor does not directly change the intermediate hidden state during the self-attention calculation of the transformer structure. We designed the Excitor block as a bypass module for the similarity score computation in LLMs' self-attention to reconstruct keys and change the importance of values by learnable prompts. LLaMA-Excitor ensures a self-adaptive allocation of additional attention to input instructions, thus effectively preserving LLMs' pre-trained knowledge when fine-tuning LLMs on low-quality instruction-following datasets. Furthermore, we unify the modeling of multi-modal tuning and language-only tuning, extending LLaMA-Excitor to a powerful visual instruction follower without the need for complex multi-modal alignment. Our proposed approach is evaluated in language-only and multi-modal tuning experimental scenarios. Notably, LLaMA-Excitor is the only method that maintains basic capabilities while achieving a significant improvement (+6%) on the MMLU benchmark. In the visual instruction tuning, we achieve a new state-of-the-art image captioning performance of 157.5 CIDEr on MSCOCO, and a comparable performance (88.39%) on ScienceQA to cutting-edge models with more parameters and extensive vision-language pertaining.

------------

`[2404.00971] Exploring and Evaluating Hallucinations in LLM-Powered Code Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00971>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:31:45 GMT
    Fang Liu, Yang Liu, Lin Shi, Houkun Huang, Ruifeng Wang, Zhen Yang, Li Zhang

The rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly advanced many applications on software engineering tasks, particularly in code generation.
Despite the promising performance, LLMs are prone to generate hallucinations, which means LLMs might produce outputs that deviate from users' intent, exhibit internal inconsistencies, or misalign with the factual knowledge, making the deployment of LLMs potentially risky in a wide range of applications. Existing work mainly focuses on investing the hallucination in the domain of natural language generation (NLG), leaving a gap in understanding the types and extent of hallucinations in the context of code generation. To bridge the gap, we conducted a thematic analysis of the LLM-generated code to summarize and categorize the hallucinations present in it. Our study established a comprehensive taxonomy of hallucinations in LLM-generated code, encompassing 5 primary categories of hallucinations depending on the conflicting objectives and varying degrees of deviation observed in code generation. Furthermore, we systematically analyzed the distribution of hallucinations, exploring variations among different LLMs and their correlation with code correctness.
Based on the results, we proposed HalluCode, a benchmark for evaluating the performance of code LLMs in recognizing hallucinations. Hallucination recognition and mitigation experiments with HalluCode and HumanEval show existing LLMs face great challenges in recognizing hallucinations, particularly in identifying their types, and are hardly able to mitigate hallucinations. We believe our findings will shed light on future research about hallucination evaluation, detection, and mitigation, ultimately paving the way for building more effective and reliable code LLMs in the future.

------------

`[2404.01012] Query Performance Prediction using Relevance Judgments Generated by Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01012>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:33:05 GMT
    Chuan Meng, Negar Arabzadeh, Arian Askari, Mohammad Aliannejadi, Maarten de Rijke

Query performance prediction (QPP) aims to estimate the retrieval quality of a search system for a query without human relevance judgments. Previous QPP methods typically return a single scalar value and do not require the predicted values to approximate a specific information retrieval (IR) evaluation measure, leading to certain drawbacks: (i) a single scalar is insufficient to accurately represent different IR evaluation measures, especially when metrics do not highly correlate, and (ii) a single scalar limits the interpretability of QPP methods because solely using a scalar is insufficient to explain QPP results.
To address these issues, we propose a QPP framework using automatically generated relevance judgments (QPP-GenRE), which decomposes QPP into independent subtasks of judging the relevance of each item in a ranked list to a given query. This allows us to predict any IR evaluation measure using the generated relevance judgments as pseudo-labels; Also, this allows us to interpret predicted IR evaluation measures, and identify, track and rectify errors in generated relevance judgments to improve QPP quality. We judge relevance by leveraging a leading open-source large language model (LLM), LLaMA, to ensure scientific reproducibility. In doing so, we address two main challenges: (i) excessive computational costs of judging the entire corpus for predicting a recall-based metric, and (ii) poor performance in prompting LLaMA in a zero-/few-shot manner. We devise an approximation strategy to predict a recall-oriented IR measure and propose to fine-tune LLaMA using human-labeled relevance judgments. Experiments on the TREC 2019-2022 deep learning tracks show that QPP-GenRE achieves state-of-the-art QPP accuracy for both lexical and neural rankers in both precision- and recall-oriented metrics.

------------

`[2404.01135] Enhancing Reasoning Capacity of SLM using Cognitive Enhancement <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01135>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 14:29:58 GMT
    Jonathan Pan, Swee Liang Wong, Xin Wei Chia, Yidi Yuan

Large Language Models (LLMs) have been applied to automate cyber security activities and processes including cyber investigation and digital forensics.
However, the use of such models for cyber investigation and digital forensics should address accountability and security considerations. Accountability ensures models have the means to provide explainable reasonings and outcomes.
This information can be extracted through explicit prompt requests. For security considerations, it is crucial to address privacy and confidentiality of the involved data during data processing as well. One approach to deal with this consideration is to have the data processed locally using a local instance of the model. Due to limitations of locally available resources, namely memory and GPU capacities, a Smaller Large Language Model (SLM) will typically be used. These SLMs have significantly fewer parameters compared to the LLMs.
However, such size reductions have notable performance reduction, especially when tasked to provide reasoning explanations. In this paper, we aim to mitigate performance reduction through the integration of cognitive strategies that humans use for problem-solving. We term this as cognitive enhancement through prompts. Our experiments showed significant improvement gains of the SLMs' performances when such enhancements were applied. We believe that our exploration study paves the way for further investigation into the use of cognitive enhancement to optimize SLM for cyber security applications.

------------

`[2404.01258] Direct Preference Optimization of Video Large Multimodal Models from Language Model Reward <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01258>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:28:16 GMT
    Ruohong Zhang, Liangke Gui, Zhiqing Sun, Yihao Feng, Keyang Xu, Yuanhan Zhang, Di Fu, Chunyuan Li, Alexander Hauptmann, Yonatan Bisk, and Yiming Yang

Preference modeling techniques, such as direct preference optimization (DPO), has shown effective in enhancing the generalization abilities of large language model (LLM). However, in tasks involving video instruction-following, providing informative feedback, especially for detecting hallucinations in generated responses, remains a significant challenge. Previous studies have explored using large large multimodal models (LMMs) as reward models to guide preference modeling, but their ability to accurately assess the factuality of generated responses compared to corresponding videos has not been conclusively established. This paper introduces a novel framework that utilizes detailed video captions as a proxy of video content, enabling language models to incorporate this information as supporting evidence for scoring video Question Answering (QA) predictions. Our approach demonstrates robust alignment with OpenAI GPT-4V model's reward mechanism, which directly takes video frames as input. Furthermore, we show that applying this tailored reward through DPO significantly improves the performance of video LMMs on video QA tasks.

------------

`[2404.00227] A Survey of using Large Language Models for Generating Infrastructure as Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00227>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 02:57:55 GMT
    Kalahasti Ganesh Srivatsa, Sabyasachi Mukhopadhyay, Ganesh Katrapati, Manish Shrivastava

Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is a revolutionary approach which has gained significant prominence in the Industry. IaC manages and provisions IT infrastructure using machine-readable code by enabling automation, consistency across the environments, reproducibility, version control, error reduction and enhancement in scalability. However, IaC orchestration is often a painstaking effort which requires specialised skills as well as a lot of manual effort.
Automation of IaC is a necessity in the present conditions of the Industry and in this survey, we study the feasibility of applying Large Language Models (LLM) to address this problem. LLMs are large neural network-based models which have demonstrated significant language processing abilities and shown to be capable of following a range of instructions within a broad scope. Recently, they have also been adapted for code understanding and generation tasks successfully, which makes them a promising choice for the automatic generation of IaC configurations. In this survey, we delve into the details of IaC, usage of IaC in different platforms, their challenges, LLMs in terms of code-generation aspects and the importance of LLMs in IaC along with our own experiments. Finally, we conclude by presenting the challenges in this area and highlighting the scope for future research.

------------

`[2404.00236] Enhancing Content-based Recommendation via Large Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00236>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:56:53 GMT
    Wentao Xu, Qianqian Xie, Shuo Yang, Jiangxia Cao, Shuchao Pang

In real-world applications, users express different behaviors when they interact with different items, including implicit click/like interactions, and explicit comments/reviews interactions. Nevertheless, almost all recommender works are focused on how to describe user preferences by the implicit click/like interactions, to find the synergy of people. For the content-based explicit comments/reviews interactions, some works attempt to utilize them to mine the semantic knowledge to enhance recommender models. However, they still neglect the following two points: (1) The content semantic is a universal world knowledge; how do we extract the multi-aspect semantic information to empower different domains? (2) The user/item ID feature is a fundamental element for recommender models; how do we align the ID and content semantic feature space? In this paper, we propose a `plugin' semantic knowledge transferring method \textbf{LoID}, which includes two major components: (1) LoRA-based large language model pretraining to extract multi-aspect semantic information; (2) ID-based contrastive objective to align their feature spaces. We conduct extensive experiments with SOTA baselines on real-world datasets, the detailed results demonstrating significant improvements of our method LoID.

------------

`[2404.00419] Do Vision-Language Models Understand Compound Nouns? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00419>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:54:45 GMT
    Sonal Kumar and Sreyan Ghosh and S Sakshi and Utkarsh Tyagi and Dinesh Manocha

Open-vocabulary vision-language models (VLMs) like CLIP, trained using contrastive loss, have emerged as a promising new paradigm for text-to-image retrieval. However, do VLMs understand compound nouns (CNs) (e.g., lab coat) as well as they understand nouns (e.g., lab)? We curate Compun, a novel benchmark with 400 unique and commonly used CNs, to evaluate the effectiveness of VLMs in interpreting CNs. The Compun benchmark challenges a VLM for text-to-image retrieval where, given a text prompt with a CN, the task is to select the correct image that shows the CN among a pair of distractor images that show the constituent nouns that make up the CN. Next, we perform an in-depth analysis to highlight CLIPs' limited understanding of certain types of CNs. Finally, we present an alternative framework that moves beyond hand-written templates for text prompts widely used by CLIP-like models. We employ a Large Language Model to generate multiple diverse captions that include the CN as an object in the scene described by the caption. Our proposed method improves CN understanding of CLIP by 8.25% on Compun. Code and benchmark are available at: https://github.com/sonalkum/Compun

------------

`[2404.00566] CodeBenchGen: Creating Scalable Execution-based Code Generation Benchmarks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00566>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 05:20:53 GMT
    Yiqing Xie, Alex Xie, Divyanshu Sheth, Pengfei Liu, Daniel Fried, Carolyn Rose

To facilitate evaluation of code generation systems across diverse scenarios, we present CodeBenchGen, a framework to create scalable execution-based benchmarks that only requires light guidance from humans. Specifically, we leverage a large language model (LLM) to convert an arbitrary piece of code into an evaluation example, including test cases for execution-based evaluation. We illustrate the usefulness of our framework by creating a dataset, Exec-CSN, which includes 1,931 examples involving 293 libraries revised from code in 367 GitHub repositories taken from the CodeSearchNet dataset. To demonstrate the complexity and solvability of examples in Exec-CSN, we present a human study demonstrating that 81.3% of the examples can be solved by humans and 61% are rated as ``requires effort to solve''. We conduct code generation experiments on open-source and proprietary models and analyze the performance of both humans and models. We will release the code of both the framework and the dataset upon acceptance.

------------

`[2404.00925] LLMs are Good Sign Language Translators <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00925>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:07:13 GMT
    Jia Gong, Lin Geng Foo, Yixuan He, Hossein Rahmani, Jun Liu

Sign Language Translation (SLT) is a challenging task that aims to translate sign videos into spoken language. Inspired by the strong translation capabilities of large language models (LLMs) that are trained on extensive multilingual text corpora, we aim to harness off-the-shelf LLMs to handle SLT.
In this paper, we regularize the sign videos to embody linguistic characteristics of spoken language, and propose a novel SignLLM framework to transform sign videos into a language-like representation for improved readability by off-the-shelf LLMs. SignLLM comprises two key modules: (1) The Vector-Quantized Visual Sign module converts sign videos into a sequence of discrete character-level sign tokens, and (2) the Codebook Reconstruction and Alignment module converts these character-level tokens into word-level sign representations using an optimal transport formulation. A sign-text alignment loss further bridges the gap between sign and text tokens, enhancing semantic compatibility. We achieve state-of-the-art gloss-free results on two widely-used SLT benchmarks.

------------

`[2404.00938] How Can Large Language Models Enable Better Socially Assistive Human-Robot Interaction: A Brief Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00938>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:50:56 GMT
    Zhonghao Shi, Ellen Landrum, Amy O' Connell, Mina Kian, Leticia Pinto-Alva, Kaleen Shrestha, Xiaoyuan Zhu, Maja J Matari\'c

Socially assistive robots (SARs) have shown great success in providing personalized cognitive-affective support for user populations with special needs such as older adults, children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and individuals with mental health challenges. The large body of work on SAR demonstrates its potential to provide at-home support that complements clinic-based interventions delivered by mental health professionals, making these interventions more effective and accessible. However, there are still several major technical challenges that hinder SAR-mediated interactions and interventions from reaching human-level social intelligence and efficacy. With the recent advances in large language models (LLMs), there is an increased potential for novel applications within the field of SAR that can significantly expand the current capabilities of SARs. However, incorporating LLMs introduces new risks and ethical concerns that have not yet been encountered, and must be carefully be addressed to safely deploy these more advanced systems. In this work, we aim to conduct a brief survey on the use of LLMs in SAR technologies, and discuss the potentials and risks of applying LLMs to the following three major technical challenges of SAR: 1) natural language dialog; 2) multimodal understanding; 3) LLMs as robot policies.

------------

`[2404.01245] A Statistical Framework of Watermarks for Large Language Models: Pivot, Detection Efficiency and Optimal Rules <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01245>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:03:41 GMT
    Xiang Li, Feng Ruan, Huiyuan Wang, Qi Long, Weijie J. Su

Since ChatGPT was introduced in November 2022, embedding (nearly) unnoticeable statistical signals into text generated by large language models (LLMs), also known as watermarking, has been used as a principled approach to provable detection of LLM-generated text from its human-written counterpart. In this paper, we introduce a general and flexible framework for reasoning about the statistical efficiency of watermarks and designing powerful detection rules. Inspired by the hypothesis testing formulation of watermark detection, our framework starts by selecting a pivotal statistic of the text and a secret key -- provided by the LLM to the verifier -- to enable controlling the false positive rate (the error of mistakenly detecting human-written text as LLM-generated). Next, this framework allows one to evaluate the power of watermark detection rules by obtaining a closed-form expression of the asymptotic false negative rate (the error of incorrectly classifying LLM-generated text as human-written). Our framework further reduces the problem of determining the optimal detection rule to solving a minimax optimization program. We apply this framework to two representative watermarks -- one of which has been internally implemented at OpenAI -- and obtain several findings that can be instrumental in guiding the practice of implementing watermarks. In particular, we derive optimal detection rules for these watermarks under our framework. These theoretically derived detection rules are demonstrated to be competitive and sometimes enjoy a higher power than existing detection approaches through numerical experiments.

------------

`[2404.00412] SVGCraft: Beyond Single Object Text-to-SVG Synthesis with Comprehensive Canvas Layout <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00412>`__

::

    Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:43:40 GMT
    Ayan Banerjee, Nityanand Mathur, Josep Llad\'os, Umapada Pal, Anjan Dutta

Generating VectorArt from text prompts is a challenging vision task, requiring diverse yet realistic depictions of the seen as well as unseen entities. However, existing research has been mostly limited to the generation of single objects, rather than comprehensive scenes comprising multiple elements. In response, this work introduces SVGCraft, a novel end-to-end framework for the creation of vector graphics depicting entire scenes from textual descriptions. Utilizing a pre-trained LLM for layout generation from text prompts, this framework introduces a technique for producing masked latents in specified bounding boxes for accurate object placement. It introduces a fusion mechanism for integrating attention maps and employs a diffusion U-Net for coherent composition, speeding up the drawing process. The resulting SVG is optimized using a pre-trained encoder and LPIPS loss with opacity modulation to maximize similarity. Additionally, this work explores the potential of primitive shapes in facilitating canvas completion in constrained environments. Through both qualitative and quantitative assessments, SVGCraft is demonstrated to surpass prior works in abstraction, recognizability, and detail, as evidenced by its performance metrics (CLIP-T: 0.4563, Cosine Similarity: 0.6342, Confusion: 0.66, Aesthetic: 6.7832). The code will be available at https://github.com/ayanban011/SVGCraft.

------------

`[2404.00640] Face It Yourselves: An LLM-Based Two-Stage Strategy to Localize Configuration Errors via Logs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00640>`__

::

    Sun, 31 Mar 2024 10:47:38 GMT
    Shiwen Shan, Yintong Huo, Yuxin Su, Yichen Li, Dan Li and Zibin Zheng

Configurable software systems are prone to configuration errors, resulting in significant losses to companies. However, diagnosing these errors is challenging due to the vast and complex configuration space. These errors pose significant challenges for both experienced maintainers and new end-users, particularly those without access to the source code of the software systems.
Given that logs are easily accessible to most end-users, we conduct a preliminary study to outline the challenges and opportunities of utilizing logs in localizing configuration errors. Based on the insights gained from the preliminary study, we propose an LLM-based two-stage strategy for end-users to localize the root-cause configuration properties based on logs. We further implement a tool, LogConfigLocalizer, aligned with the design of the aforementioned strategy, hoping to assist end-users in coping with configuration errors through log analysis.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to localize the root-cause configuration properties for end-users based on Large Language Models~(LLMs) and logs. We evaluate the proposed strategy on Hadoop by LogConfigLocalizer and prove its efficiency with an average accuracy as high as 99.91%. Additionally, we also demonstrate the effectiveness and necessity of different phases of the methodology by comparing it with two other variants and a baseline tool. Moreover, we validate the proposed methodology through a practical case study to demonstrate its effectiveness and feasibility.

------------

`[2404.01220] Entity-Centric Reinforcement Learning for Object Manipulation from Pixels <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01220>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:25:08 GMT
    Dan Haramati, Tal Daniel, Aviv Tamar

Manipulating objects is a hallmark of human intelligence, and an important task in domains such as robotics. In principle, Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers a general approach to learn object manipulation. In practice, however, domains with more than a few objects are difficult for RL agents due to the curse of dimensionality, especially when learning from raw image observations.
In this work we propose a structured approach for visual RL that is suitable for representing multiple objects and their interaction, and use it to learn goal-conditioned manipulation of several objects. Key to our method is the ability to handle goals with dependencies between the objects (e.g., moving objects in a certain order). We further relate our architecture to the generalization capability of the trained agent, based on a theoretical result for compositional generalization, and demonstrate agents that learn with 3 objects but generalize to similar tasks with over 10 objects. Videos and code are available on the project website: https://sites.google.com/view/entity-centric-rl

------------

`[2404.01231] Privacy Backdoors: Enhancing Membership Inference through Poisoning Pre-trained Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01231>`__

::

    Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:50:54 GMT
    Yuxin Wen, Leo Marchyok, Sanghyun Hong, Jonas Geiping, Tom Goldstein, Nicholas Carlini

It is commonplace to produce application-specific models by fine-tuning large pre-trained models using a small bespoke dataset. The widespread availability of foundation model checkpoints on the web poses considerable risks, including the vulnerability to backdoor attacks. In this paper, we unveil a new vulnerability: the privacy backdoor attack. This black-box privacy attack aims to amplify the privacy leakage that arises when fine-tuning a model: when a victim fine-tunes a backdoored model, their training data will be leaked at a significantly higher rate than if they had fine-tuned a typical model. We conduct extensive experiments on various datasets and models, including both vision-language models (CLIP) and large language models, demonstrating the broad applicability and effectiveness of such an attack. Additionally, we carry out multiple ablation studies with different fine-tuning methods and inference strategies to thoroughly analyze this new threat. Our findings highlight a critical privacy concern within the machine learning community and call for a reevaluation of safety protocols in the use of open-source pre-trained models.

------------

`[2308.00225] Instructed to Bias: Instruction-Tuned Language Models Exhibit Emergent Cognitive Bias <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.00225>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 12:20:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Itay Itzhak [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 1 Aug 2023 01:39:25 UTC (8,002 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 12:20:25 UTC (500 KB)
    Itay Itzhak, Gabriel Stanovsky, Nir Rosenfeld, Yonatan Belinkov

Recent studies show that instruction tuning (IT) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) improve the abilities of large language models (LMs) dramatically. While these tuning methods can help align models with human objectives and generate high-quality text, not much is known about their potential adverse effects. In this work, we investigate the effect of IT and RLHF on decision making and reasoning in LMs, focusing on three cognitive biases - the decoy effect, the certainty effect, and the belief bias - all of which are known to influence human decision-making and reasoning. Our findings highlight the presence of these biases in various models from the GPT-3, Mistral, and T5 families. Notably, we find a stronger presence of biases in models that have undergone instruction tuning, such as Flan-T5, Mistral-Instruct, GPT3.5, and GPT4. Our work constitutes a step toward comprehending cognitive biases in instruction-tuned LMs, which is crucial for the development of more reliable and unbiased language models.

------------

`[2311.09724] OVM, Outcome-supervised Value Models for Planning in Mathematical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09724>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 13:50:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Fei Yu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 09:56:28 UTC (7,811 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 13:50:51 UTC (8,036 KB)
    Fei Yu, Anningzhe Gao, Benyou Wang

Large language models (LLMs) often struggle with maintaining accuracy throughout multiple multiple reasoning steps, especially in mathematical reasoning where an error in earlier steps can propagate to subsequent ones and it ultimately leading to an incorrect answer. To reduce error propagation, guided decoding is employed to direct the LM decoding on a step-by-step basis. We argue that in guided decoding, assessing the potential of an incomplete reasoning path can be more advantageous than simply ensuring per-step correctness, as the former approach leads towards a correct final answer. This transforms the task into a $\textit{value estimation}$ problem in planning.
Inspired by the findings that $\textit{outcome supervision for guided decoding essentially acts as a value model}$, we propose Outcome-supervised Value Model (OVM) that employs outcome supervision for training a value model, which prioritizes steps that lead to accurate conclusions. Furthermore, the OVM eliminates the need for labor-intensive annotations of step-level correctness, thereby significantly enhancing its scalability. Our experiments on two multi-step mathematical reasoning datasets, GSM8K and Game of 24, demonstrate the superior performance of the OVM model. Notably, in GSM8K, our $\textbf{OVM-7B model achieves state-of-the-art results among LLMs up to 13B parameters}$; especially it does not utilize GPT-4 or code execution. These findings offer a novel perspective on the role of outcome supervision in training value models for multi-step reasoning tasks and provide theoretical justification for its advantage in value estimation for guided decoding.

------------

`[2311.11211] Leveraging Generative AI for Clinical Evidence Summarization Needs to Ensure Trustworthiness <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11211>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:04:25 GMT
    Submission history From: Gongbo Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 19 Nov 2023 03:29:45 UTC (80 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 26 Jan 2024 12:20:34 UTC (413 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:04:25 UTC (240 KB)
    Gongbo Zhang, Qiao Jin, Denis Jered McInerney, Yong Chen, Fei Wang, Curtis L. Cole, Qian Yang, Yanshan Wang, Bradley A. Malin, Mor Peleg, Byron C. Wallace, Zhiyong Lu, Chunhua Weng, Yifan Peng

Evidence-based medicine promises to improve the quality of healthcare by empowering medical decisions and practices with the best available evidence. The rapid growth of medical evidence, which can be obtained from various sources, poses a challenge in collecting, appraising, and synthesizing the evidential information. Recent advancements in generative AI, exemplified by large language models, hold promise in facilitating the arduous task. However, developing accountable, fair, and inclusive models remains a complicated undertaking. In this perspective, we discuss the trustworthiness of generative AI in the context of automated summarization of medical evidence.

------------

`[2312.09238] Auto MC-Reward: Automated Dense Reward Design with Large Language Models for Minecraft <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09238>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:35:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Jifeng Dai [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 14 Dec 2023 18:58:12 UTC (7,891 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:35:16 UTC (8,245 KB)
    Hao Li, Xue Yang, Zhaokai Wang, Xizhou Zhu, Jie Zhou, Yu Qiao, Xiaogang Wang, Hongsheng Li, Lewei Lu, Jifeng Dai

Many reinforcement learning environments (e.g., Minecraft) provide only sparse rewards that indicate task completion or failure with binary values. The challenge in exploration efficiency in such environments makes it difficult for reinforcement-learning-based agents to learn complex tasks. To address this, this paper introduces an advanced learning system, named Auto MC-Reward, that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to automatically design dense reward functions, thereby enhancing the learning efficiency. Auto MC-Reward consists of three important components: Reward Designer, Reward Critic, and Trajectory Analyzer. Given the environment information and task descriptions, the Reward Designer first design the reward function by coding an executable Python function with predefined observation inputs. Then, our Reward Critic will be responsible for verifying the code, checking whether the code is self-consistent and free of syntax and semantic errors. Further, the Trajectory Analyzer summarizes possible failure causes and provides refinement suggestions according to collected trajectories. In the next round, Reward Designer will further refine and iterate the dense reward function based on feedback. Experiments demonstrate a significant improvement in the success rate and learning efficiency of our agents in complex tasks in Minecraft, such as obtaining diamond with the efficient ability to avoid lava, and efficiently explore trees and animals that are sparse in the plains biome.

------------

`[2402.09391] LlaSMol: Advancing Large Language Models for Chemistry with a Large-Scale, Comprehensive, High-Quality Instruction Tuning Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09391>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:28:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Botao Yu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 14 Feb 2024 18:42:25 UTC (875 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 18:50:37 UTC (876 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:28:16 UTC (807 KB)
    Botao Yu, Frazier N. Baker, Ziqi Chen, Xia Ning, Huan Sun

Chemistry plays a crucial role in many domains, such as drug discovery and material science. While large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 exhibit remarkable capabilities on natural language processing tasks, existing research indicates that their performance on chemistry tasks is discouragingly low. In this paper, however, we demonstrate that our developed LLMs can achieve very strong results on a comprehensive set of chemistry tasks, outperforming the most advanced GPT-4 and Claude 3 Opus by a substantial margin. To accomplish this, we propose SMolInstruct, a large-scale, comprehensive, and high-quality dataset for instruction tuning. It contains 14 selected chemistry tasks and over three million samples, laying a solid foundation for training and evaluating LLMs for chemistry. Using SMolInstruct, we fine-tune a set of open-source LLMs, among which, we find that Mistral serves as the best base model for chemistry tasks. Our analysis further demonstrates the critical role of the proposed dataset in driving the performance improvements.

------------

`[2403.14589] ReAct Meets ActRe: When Language Agents Enjoy Training Data Autonomy <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14589>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:37:15 GMT
    Submission history From: Zonghan Yang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 17:43:44 UTC (340 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 25 Mar 2024 15:45:35 UTC (340 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:37:15 UTC (341 KB)
    Zonghan Yang, Peng Li, Ming Yan, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Yang Liu

Language agents have demonstrated autonomous decision-making abilities by reasoning with foundation models. Recently, efforts have been made to train language agents for performance improvement, with multi-step reasoning and action trajectories as the training data. However, collecting such trajectories still requires considerable human effort, by either artificial annotation or implementations of diverse prompting frameworks. In this work, we propose A$^3$T, a framework that enables the Autonomous Annotation of Agent Trajectories in the style of ReAct. The central role is an ActRe prompting agent, which explains the reason for an arbitrary action. When randomly sampling an external action, the ReAct-style agent could query the ActRe agent with the action to obtain its textual rationales. Novel trajectories are then synthesized by prepending the posterior reasoning from ActRe to the sampled action. In this way, the ReAct-style agent executes multiple trajectories for the failed tasks, and selects the successful ones to supplement its failed trajectory for contrastive self-training. Realized by policy gradient methods with binarized rewards, the contrastive self-training with accumulated trajectories facilitates a closed loop for multiple rounds of language agent self-improvement. We conduct experiments using QLoRA fine-tuning with the open-sourced Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2. In AlfWorld, the agent trained with A$^3$T obtains a 1-shot success rate of 96%, and 100% success with 4 iterative rounds. In WebShop, the 1-shot performance of the A$^3$T agent matches human average, and 4 rounds of iterative refinement lead to the performance approaching human experts. A$^3$T agents significantly outperform existing techniques, including prompting with GPT-4, advanced agent frameworks, and fully fine-tuned LLMs.

------------

`[2403.17306] Visual Hallucination: Definition, Quantification, and Prescriptive Remediations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17306>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 03:52:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Anku Rani [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 26 Mar 2024 01:28:42 UTC (25,437 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 03:52:14 UTC (25,437 KB)
    Anku Rani, Vipula Rawte, Harshad Sharma, Neeraj Anand, Krishnav Rajbangshi, Amit Sheth, Amitava Das

The troubling rise of hallucination presents perhaps the most significant impediment to the advancement of responsible AI. In recent times, considerable research has focused on detecting and mitigating hallucination in Large Language Models (LLMs). However, it's worth noting that hallucination is also quite prevalent in Vision-Language models (VLMs). In this paper, we offer a fine-grained discourse on profiling VLM hallucination based on two tasks: i) image captioning, and ii) Visual Question Answering (VQA). We delineate eight fine-grained orientations of visual hallucination: i) Contextual Guessing, ii) Identity Incongruity, iii) Geographical Erratum, iv) Visual Illusion, v) Gender Anomaly, vi) VLM as Classifier, vii) Wrong Reading, and viii) Numeric Discrepancy. We curate Visual HallucInation eLiciTation (VHILT), a publicly available dataset comprising 2,000 samples generated using eight VLMs across two tasks of captioning and VQA along with human annotations for the categories as mentioned earlier.

------------

`[2211.05985] Using Persuasive Writing Strategies to Explain and Detect Health Misinformation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05985>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:08:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Parisa Kordjamshidi [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 11 Nov 2022 03:26:37 UTC (284 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 25 May 2023 02:38:52 UTC (3,699 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:08:28 UTC (3,754 KB)
    [v4] Wed, 10 Apr 2024 14:13:29 UTC (145 KB)
    Danial Kamali, Joseph Romain, Huiyi Liu, Wei Peng, Jingbo Meng, Parisa Kordjamshidi

Nowadays, the spread of misinformation is a prominent problem in society. Our research focuses on aiding the automatic identification of misinformation by analyzing the persuasive strategies employed in textual documents. We introduce a novel annotation scheme encompassing common persuasive writing tactics to achieve our objective. Additionally, we provide a dataset on health misinformation, thoroughly annotated by experts utilizing our proposed scheme. Our contribution includes proposing a new task of annotating pieces of text with their persuasive writing strategy types. We evaluate fine-tuning and prompt-engineering techniques with pre-trained language models of the BERT family and the generative large language models of the GPT family using persuasive strategies as an additional source of information. We evaluate the effects of employing persuasive strategies as intermediate labels in the context of misinformation detection. Our results show that those strategies enhance accuracy and improve the explainability of misinformation detection models. The persuasive strategies can serve as valuable insights and explanations, enabling other models or even humans to make more informed decisions regarding the trustworthiness of the information.

------------

`[2304.08103] Low-code LLM: Graphical User Interface over Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.08103>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:05:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Shaoguang Mao [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 17 Apr 2023 09:27:40 UTC (1,287 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 20 Apr 2023 06:42:24 UTC (1,287 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:05:11 UTC (2,290 KB)
    Yuzhe Cai, Shaoguang Mao, Wenshan Wu, Zehua Wang, Yaobo Liang, Tao Ge, Chenfei Wu, Wang You, Ting Song, Yan Xia, Jonathan Tien, Nan Duan, Furu Wei

Utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) for complex tasks is challenging, often involving a time-consuming and uncontrollable prompt engineering process. This paper introduces a novel human-LLM interaction framework, Low-code LLM. It incorporates six types of simple low-code visual programming interactions to achieve more controllable and stable responses. Through visual interaction with a graphical user interface, users can incorporate their ideas into the process without writing trivial prompts. The proposed Low-code LLM framework consists of a Planning LLM that designs a structured planning workflow for complex tasks, which can be correspondingly edited and confirmed by users through low-code visual programming operations, and an Executing LLM that generates responses following the user-confirmed workflow. We highlight three advantages of the low-code LLM: user-friendly interaction, controllable generation, and wide applicability. We demonstrate its benefits using four typical applications. By introducing this framework, we aim to bridge the gap between humans and LLMs, enabling more effective and efficient utilization of LLMs for complex tasks. The code, prompts, and experimental details are available at this https URL. A system demonstration video can be found at this https URL.

------------

`[2305.09781] SpecInfer: Accelerating Generative Large Language Model Serving with Tree-based Speculative Inference and Verification <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09781>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:18:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhihao Jia [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 16 May 2023 20:12:59 UTC (4,795 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 16 Aug 2023 13:33:06 UTC (7,864 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 05:02:03 UTC (9,118 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:18:42 UTC (9,137 KB)
    Xupeng Miao, Gabriele Oliaro, Zhihao Zhang, Xinhao Cheng, Zeyu Wang, Zhengxin Zhang, Rae Ying Yee Wong, Alan Zhu, Lijie Yang, Xiaoxiang Shi, Chunan Shi, Zhuoming Chen, Daiyaan Arfeen, Reyna Abhyankar, Zhihao Jia

This paper introduces SpecInfer, a system that accelerates generative large language model (LLM) serving with tree-based speculative inference and verification. The key idea behind SpecInfer is leveraging small speculative models to predict the LLM's outputs; the predictions are organized as a token tree, whose nodes each represent a candidate token sequence. The correctness of all candidate token sequences represented by a token tree is verified against the LLM in parallel using a novel tree-based parallel decoding mechanism. SpecInfer uses an LLM as a token tree verifier instead of an incremental decoder, which significantly reduces the end-to-end latency and computational requirement for serving generative LLMs while provably preserving model quality. Our evaluation shows that SpecInfer outperforms existing LLM serving systems by 1.5-2.8x for distributed LLM inference and by 2.6-3.5x for offloading-based LLM inference, while preserving the same generative performance. SpecInfer is publicly available at this https URL

------------

`[2305.12599] Abstract Meaning Representation-Based Logic-Driven Data Augmentation for Logical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12599>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 11:14:55 GMT
    Submission history From: Qiming Bao [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 21 May 2023 23:16:26 UTC (1,070 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 14 Oct 2023 09:44:32 UTC (6,515 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 22:44:36 UTC (4,070 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 11:14:55 UTC (4,140 KB)
    Qiming Bao, Alex Yuxuan Peng, Zhenyun Deng, Wanjun Zhong, Gael Gendron, Timothy Pistotti, Neset Tan, Nathan Young, Yang Chen, Yonghua Zhu, Paul Denny, Michael Witbrock, Jiamou Liu

Combining large language models with logical reasoning enhances their capacity to address problems in a robust and reliable manner. Nevertheless, the intricate nature of logical reasoning poses challenges to gathering reliable data from the web for building comprehensive training datasets, subsequently affecting the performance on downstream tasks. To address this, we introduce a novel logic-driven data augmentation approach, AMR-LDA. AMR-LDA converts the original text into an Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) graph, a structured semantic representation that encapsulates the logic structure of the sentence, upon which operations are performed to generate logically modified AMR graphs. The modified AMR graphs are subsequently converted back into text to create augmented data. Notably, our methodology is architecture-agnostic and enhances both generative large language models, such as GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, through prompt augmentation, and discriminative large language models through contrastive learning with logic-driven data augmentation. Empirical evidence underscores the efficacy of our proposed method with improvement in performance across seven downstream tasks, such as reading comprehension requiring logical reasoning, textual entailment, and natural language inference. Furthermore, our method leads on the ReClor leaderboard (this https URL). The source code and data are publicly available this https URL.

------------

`[2305.14623] Self-Checker: Plug-and-Play Modules for Fact-Checking with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14623>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:23:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Miaoran Li [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 24 May 2023 01:46:07 UTC (11,800 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:23:23 UTC (13,300 KB)
    Miaoran Li, Baolin Peng, Michel Galley, Jianfeng Gao, Zhu Zhang

Fact-checking is an essential task in NLP that is commonly utilized for validating the factual accuracy of claims. Prior work has mainly focused on fine-tuning pre-trained languages models on specific datasets, which can be computationally intensive and time-consuming. With the rapid development of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-3, researchers are now exploring their in-context learning capabilities for a wide range of tasks. In this paper, we aim to assess the capacity of LLMs for fact-checking by introducing Self-Checker, a framework comprising a set of plug-and-play modules that facilitate fact-checking by purely prompting LLMs in an almost zero-shot setting. This framework provides a fast and efficient way to construct fact-checking systems in low-resource environments. Empirical results demonstrate the potential of Self-Checker in utilizing LLMs for fact-checking. However, there is still significant room for improvement compared to SOTA fine-tuned models, which suggests that LLM adoption could be a promising approach for future fact-checking research.

------------

`[2306.00739] SQL-PaLM: Improved Large Language Model Adaptation for Text-to-SQL (extended) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.00739>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 17:22:44 GMT
    Submission history From: Ruoxi Sun [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 26 May 2023 21:39:05 UTC (315 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 7 Jun 2023 07:23:56 UTC (389 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 25 Jun 2023 06:44:48 UTC (389 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 17:22:44 UTC (1,204 KB)
    Ruoxi Sun, Sercan \"O. Arik, Alex Muzio, Lesly Miculicich, Satya Gundabathula, Pengcheng Yin, Hanjun Dai, Hootan Nakhost, Rajarishi Sinha, Zifeng Wang, Tomas Pfister

Text-to-SQL, the process of translating natural language into Structured Query Language (SQL), represents a transformative application of large language models (LLMs), potentially revolutionizing how humans interact with data. This paper introduces the SQL-PaLM framework, a comprehensive solution for understanding and enhancing Text-to-SQL using LLMs, using in the learning regimes of few-shot prompting and instruction fine-tuning. With few-shot prompting, we explore the effectiveness of consistency decoding with execution-based error filtering. With instruction fine-tuning, we delve deep in understanding the critical paradigms that influence the performance of tuned LLMs. In particular, we investigate how performance can be improved through expanded training data coverage and diversity, synthetic data augmentation, and integrating query-specific database content. We propose a test-time selection method to further refine accuracy by integrating SQL outputs from multiple paradigms with execution feedback as guidance. Additionally, we tackle the practical challenge of navigating intricate databases with a significant number of tables and columns, proposing efficient techniques for accurately selecting relevant database elements to enhance Text-to-SQL performance. Our holistic approach yields substantial advancements in Text-to-SQL, as demonstrated on two key public benchmarks, Spider and BIRD. Through comprehensive ablations and error analyses, we shed light on the strengths and weaknesses of our framework, offering valuable insights into Text-to-SQL's future work.

------------

`[2306.02796] MCTS: A Multi-Reference Chinese Text Simplification Dataset <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02796>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 07:55:41 GMT
    Submission history From: Liner Yang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 5 Jun 2023 11:46:36 UTC (574 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 07:55:41 UTC (576 KB)
    Ruining Chong, Luming Lu, Liner Yang, Jinran Nie, Zhenghao Liu, Shuo Wang, Shuhan Zhou, Yaoxin Li, Erhong Yang

Text simplification aims to make the text easier to understand by applying rewriting transformations. There has been very little research on Chinese text simplification for a long time. The lack of generic evaluation data is an essential reason for this phenomenon. In this paper, we introduce MCTS, a multi-reference Chinese text simplification dataset. We describe the annotation process of the dataset and provide a detailed analysis. Furthermore, we evaluate the performance of several unsupervised methods and advanced large language models. We additionally provide Chinese text simplification parallel data that can be used for training, acquired by utilizing machine translation and English text simplification. We hope to build a basic understanding of Chinese text simplification through the foundational work and provide references for future research. All of the code and data are released at this https URL.

------------

`[2307.02185] Citation: A Key to Building Responsible and Accountable Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.02185>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:47:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Jie Huang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 5 Jul 2023 10:25:45 UTC (131 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 07:59:16 UTC (172 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:47:47 UTC (183 KB)
    Jie Huang, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang

Large Language Models (LLMs) bring transformative benefits alongside unique challenges, including intellectual property (IP) and ethical concerns. This position paper explores a novel angle to mitigate these risks, drawing parallels between LLMs and established web systems. We identify "citation" - the acknowledgement or reference to a source or evidence - as a crucial yet missing component in LLMs. Incorporating citation could enhance content transparency and verifiability, thereby confronting the IP and ethical issues in the deployment of LLMs. We further propose that a comprehensive citation mechanism for LLMs should account for both non-parametric and parametric content. Despite the complexity of implementing such a citation mechanism, along with the potential pitfalls, we advocate for its development. Building on this foundation, we outline several research problems in this area, aiming to guide future explorations towards building more responsible and accountable LLMs.

------------

`[2308.01263] XSTest: A Test Suite for Identifying Exaggerated Safety Behaviours in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01263>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 11:50:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Paul Rttger [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 2 Aug 2023 16:30:40 UTC (412 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 17 Oct 2023 16:21:55 UTC (329 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 11:50:35 UTC (335 KB)
    Paul R\"ottger, Hannah Rose Kirk, Bertie Vidgen, Giuseppe Attanasio, Federico Bianchi, Dirk Hovy

Without proper safeguards, large language models will readily follow malicious instructions and generate toxic content. This risk motivates safety efforts such as red-teaming and large-scale feedback learning, which aim to make models both helpful and harmless. However, there is a tension between these two objectives, since harmlessness requires models to refuse to comply with unsafe prompts, and thus not be helpful. Recent anecdotal evidence suggests that some models may have struck a poor balance, so that even clearly safe prompts are refused if they use similar language to unsafe prompts or mention sensitive topics. In this paper, we introduce a new test suite called XSTest to identify such eXaggerated Safety behaviours in a systematic way. XSTest comprises 250 safe prompts across ten prompt types that well-calibrated models should not refuse to comply with, and 200 unsafe prompts as contrasts that models, for most applications, should refuse. We describe XSTest's creation and composition, and then use the test suite to highlight systematic failure modes in state-of-the-art language models as well as more general challenges in building safer language models.

------------

`[2308.08043] DiagGPT: An LLM-based Chatbot with Automatic Topic Management for Task-Oriented Dialogue <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.08043>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 04:39:05 GMT
    Submission history From: Lang Cao [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 15 Aug 2023 21:14:09 UTC (432 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 21 Aug 2023 05:22:44 UTC (429 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 04:39:05 UTC (8,116 KB)
    Lang Cao

Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, are increasingly sophisticated and exhibit capabilities closely resembling those of humans. A significant application of these LLMs is their use as chat agents, responding to human inquiries across various domains. While current LLMs proficiently answer general questions, they often fall short in complex diagnostic scenarios such as legal, medical, or other specialized consultations. These scenarios typically require Task-Oriented Dialogue (TOD), where an AI chat agent must proactively pose questions and guide users toward specific goals or task completion. Previous fine-tuning models have underperformed in TOD and the full potential of this capability in current LLMs has not yet been fully explored. In this paper, we introduce DiagGPT (Dialogue in Diagnosis GPT), an innovative approach that extends LLMs to more TOD scenarios. In addition to guiding users to complete tasks, DiagGPT can effectively manage the status of all topics throughout the dialogue development. This feature enhances user experience and offers a more flexible interaction in TOD. Our experiments demonstrate that DiagGPT exhibits outstanding performance in conducting TOD with users, showing its potential for practical applications in various fields.

------------

`[2308.08973] End-to-End Beam Retrieval for Multi-Hop Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.08973>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 08:30:38 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiahao Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 17 Aug 2023 13:24:14 UTC (7,314 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 08:30:38 UTC (8,638 KB)
    Jiahao Zhang, Haiyang Zhang, Dongmei Zhang, Yong Liu and Shen Huang

Multi-hop question answering (QA) involves finding multiple relevant passages and step-by-step reasoning to answer complex questions, indicating a retrieve-and-read paradigm. However, previous retrievers were customized for two-hop questions, and most of them were trained separately across different hops, resulting in a lack of supervision over the entire multi-hop retrieval process and leading to poor performance in complicated scenarios beyond two hops. In this work, we introduce Beam Retrieval, an end-to-end beam retrieval framework for multi-hop QA. This approach models the multi-hop retrieval process in an end-to-end manner by jointly optimizing an encoder and two classification heads across all hops. Moreover, Beam Retrieval maintains multiple partial hypotheses of relevant passages at each step, expanding the search space and reducing the risk of missing relevant passages. To establish a complete QA system, we incorporate a supervised reader or a large language model (LLM). Experimental results demonstrate that Beam Retrieval achieves a nearly 50% improvement compared with baselines on challenging MuSiQue-Ans, and it also surpasses all previous retrievers on HotpotQA and achieves 99.9% precision on 2WikiMultiHopQA. Providing high-quality context, Beam Retrieval helps our supervised reader achieve new state-of-the-art performance and substantially improves the few-shot QA performance of LLMs.

------------

`[2308.10509] An Examination of the Compositionality of Large Generative Vision-Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.10509>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:09:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Rong Li [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 21 Aug 2023 06:50:29 UTC (5,227 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:09:14 UTC (3,963 KB)
    Teli Ma, Rong Li, Junwei Liang

With the success of Large Language Models (LLMs), many Generative Vision-Language Models (GVLMs) have been constructed via multimodal instruction tuning. However, the performance of GVLMs in multimodal compositional reasoning remains under-explored. In this paper, we examine both the evaluation metrics (VisualGPTScore, etc.) and current benchmarks for evaluating the compositionality of GVLMs. We identify the syntactical bias in current benchmarks, which is exploited by the linguistic capability of GVLMs. The bias renders VisualGPTScore an insufficient metric for assessing GVLMs. To combat this, we first introduce a SyntaxBias Score, leveraging LLMs to quantify such bias for mitigation. A challenging new task is subsequently added to evaluate the robustness of GVLMs against inherent inclination toward syntactical correctness. Using the bias-mitigated datasets and the new task, we propose a novel benchmark, namely SyntActically DE-biased benchmark (SADE). Our study provides an unbiased benchmark for the compositionality of GVLMs, facilitating future research in this direction (Code and dataset are available at this https URL).

------------

`[2309.06415] Down the Toxicity Rabbit Hole: A Novel Framework to Bias Audit Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06415>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 02:24:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Ashiqur Rahman KhudaBukhsh [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 8 Sep 2023 03:59:02 UTC (1,699 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 18 Sep 2023 16:56:40 UTC (1,699 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 23 Dec 2023 06:54:20 UTC (1,701 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 02:24:39 UTC (3,391 KB)
    Arka Dutta and Adel Khorramrouz and Sujan Dutta and Ashiqur R. KhudaBukhsh

This paper makes three contributions. First, it presents a generalizable, novel framework dubbed \textit{toxicity rabbit hole} that iteratively elicits toxic content from a wide suite of large language models. Spanning a set of 1,266 identity groups, we first conduct a bias audit of \texttt{PaLM 2} guardrails presenting key insights. Next, we report generalizability across several other models. Through the elicited toxic content, we present a broad analysis with a key emphasis on racism, antisemitism, misogyny, Islamophobia, homophobia, and transphobia. Finally, driven by concrete examples, we discuss potential ramifications.

------------

`[2309.08591] Are Multilingual LLMs Culturally-Diverse Reasoners? An Investigation into Multicultural Proverbs and Sayings <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08591>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 17:13:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Chen Liu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Sep 2023 17:45:28 UTC (1,253 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 17:13:58 UTC (2,200 KB)
    Chen Cecilia Liu, Fajri Koto, Timothy Baldwin, Iryna Gurevych

Large language models (LLMs) are highly adept at question answering and reasoning tasks, but when reasoning in a situational context, human expectations vary depending on the relevant cultural common ground. As languages are associated with diverse cultures, LLMs should also be culturally-diverse reasoners. In this paper, we study the ability of a wide range of state-of-the-art multilingual LLMs (mLLMs) to reason with proverbs and sayings in a conversational context. Our experiments reveal that: (1) mLLMs "know" limited proverbs and memorizing proverbs does not mean understanding them within a conversational context; (2) mLLMs struggle to reason with figurative proverbs and sayings, and when asked to select the wrong answer (instead of asking it to select the correct answer); and (3) there is a "culture gap" in mLLMs when reasoning about proverbs and sayings translated from other languages. We construct and release our evaluation dataset MAPS (MulticultrAl Proverbs and Sayings) for proverb understanding with conversational context for six different languages.

------------

`[2309.14771] Knowledgeable In-Context Tuning: Exploring and Exploiting Factual Knowledge for In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14771>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 13:55:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Chengyu Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 26 Sep 2023 09:06:39 UTC (1,411 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 13:55:39 UTC (1,377 KB)
    Jianing Wang, Chengyu Wang, Chuanqi Tan, Jun Huang, Ming Gao

Large language models (LLMs) enable in-context learning (ICL) by conditioning on a few labeled training examples as a text-based prompt, eliminating the need for parameter updates and achieving competitive performance. In this paper, we demonstrate that factual knowledge is imperative for the performance of ICL in three core facets: the inherent knowledge learned in LLMs, the factual knowledge derived from the selected in-context examples, and the knowledge biases in LLMs for output generation. To unleash the power of LLMs in few-shot learning scenarios, we introduce a novel Knowledgeable In-Context Tuning (KICT) framework to further improve the performance of ICL: 1) injecting knowledge into LLMs during continual self-supervised pre-training, 2) judiciously selecting the examples for ICL with high knowledge relevance, and 3) calibrating the prediction results based on prior knowledge. We evaluate the proposed approaches on autoregressive models (e.g., GPT-style LLMs) over multiple text classification and question-answering tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that KICT substantially outperforms strong baselines and improves by more than 13% and 7% on text classification and question-answering tasks, respectively.

------------

`[2310.00322] Red Teaming Game: A Game-Theoretic Framework for Red Teaming Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00322>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:09:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Chengdong Ma [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 30 Sep 2023 09:35:50 UTC (1,186 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 10 Oct 2023 09:00:40 UTC (2,526 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:09:16 UTC (2,517 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 6 Apr 2024 16:48:20 UTC (2,519 KB)
    Chengdong Ma, Ziran Yang, Minquan Gao, Hai Ci, Jun Gao, Xuehai Pan, Yaodong Yang

Deployable Large Language Models (LLMs) must conform to the criterion of helpfulness and harmlessness, thereby achieving consistency between LLMs outputs and human values. Red-teaming techniques constitute a critical way towards this criterion. Existing work rely solely on manual red team designs and heuristic adversarial prompts for vulnerability detection and optimization. These approaches lack rigorous mathematical formulation, thus limiting the exploration of diverse attack strategy within quantifiable measure and optimization of LLMs under convergence guarantees. In this paper, we present Red-teaming Game (RTG), a general game-theoretic framework without manual annotation. RTG is designed for analyzing the multi-turn attack and defense interactions between Red-team language Models (RLMs) and Blue-team Language Model (BLM). Within the RTG, we propose Gamified Red-teaming Solver (GRTS) with diversity measure of the semantic space. GRTS is an automated red teaming technique to solve RTG towards Nash equilibrium through meta-game analysis, which corresponds to the theoretically guaranteed optimization direction of both RLMs and BLM. Empirical results in multi-turn attacks with RLMs show that GRTS autonomously discovered diverse attack strategies and effectively improved security of LLMs, outperforming existing heuristic red-team designs. Overall, RTG has established a foundational framework for red teaming tasks and constructed a new scalable oversight technique for alignment.

------------

`[2310.00836] Towards LogiGLUE: A Brief Survey and A Benchmark for Analyzing Logical Reasoning Capabilities of Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00836>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 01:02:55 GMT
    Submission history From: Man Luo [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 2 Oct 2023 01:00:50 UTC (1,043 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 3 Nov 2023 23:43:07 UTC (1,044 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 01:02:55 UTC (775 KB)
    Man Luo, Shrinidhi Kumbhar, Ming shen, Mihir Parmar, Neeraj Varshney, Pratyay Banerjee, Somak Aditya, Chitta Baral

Logical reasoning is fundamental for humans yet presents a substantial challenge in the domain of Artificial Intelligence. Initially, researchers used Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KR) systems that did not scale and required non-trivial manual effort. Recently, the emergence of large language models (LLMs) has demonstrated the ability to overcome various limitations of formal Knowledge Representation (KR) systems. Consequently, there's a growing interest in using LLMs for logical reasoning via natural language. This work strives to understand the proficiency of LLMs in logical reasoning by offering a brief review of the latest progress in this area; with a focus on the logical reasoning datasets, tasks, and the methods adopted to utilize LLMs for reasoning. To offer a thorough analysis, we have compiled a benchmark titled LogiGLUE. This includes 24 varied datasets encompassing deductive, abductive, and inductive reasoning. Utilizing LogiGLUE as a foundation, we have trained an instruction fine-tuned language model, resulting in LogiT5. We study single-task training, multi-task training, and "chain-of-thought" knowledge distillation fine-tuning technique to assess the performance of model across the different logical reasoning categories. We also assess various LLMs using LogiGLUE, and the findings indicate that LLMs excel most in abductive reasoning, followed by deductive reasoning, while they are least effective at inductive reasoning. We aim to shed light on the capabilities and potential pathways for enhancing logical reasoning proficiency in LLMs, paving the way for more advanced and nuanced developments in this critical field.

------------

`[2310.08461] DistillSpec: Improving Speculative Decoding via Knowledge Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08461>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 03:06:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Yongchao Zhou [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 12 Oct 2023 16:21:04 UTC (590 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 03:06:51 UTC (555 KB)
    Yongchao Zhou, Kaifeng Lyu, Ankit Singh Rawat, Aditya Krishna Menon, Afshin Rostamizadeh, Sanjiv Kumar, Jean-Fran\c{c}ois Kagy, Rishabh Agarwal

Speculative decoding (SD) accelerates large language model inference by employing a faster draft model for generating multiple tokens, which are then verified in parallel by the larger target model, resulting in the text generated according to the target model distribution. However, identifying a compact draft model that is well-aligned with the target model is challenging. To tackle this issue, we propose DistillSpec that uses knowledge distillation to better align the draft model with the target model, before applying SD. DistillSpec makes two key design choices, which we demonstrate via systematic study to be crucial to improving the draft and target alignment: utilizing on-policy data generation from the draft model, and tailoring the divergence function to the task and decoding strategy. Notably, DistillSpec yields impressive 10 - 45% speedups over standard SD on a range of standard benchmarks, using both greedy and non-greedy sampling. Furthermore, we combine DistillSpec with lossy SD to achieve fine-grained control over the latency vs. task performance trade-off. Finally, in practical scenarios with models of varying sizes, first using distillation to boost the performance of the target model and then applying DistillSpec to train a well-aligned draft model can reduce decoding latency by 6-10x with minimal performance drop, compared to standard decoding without distillation.

------------

`[2310.09430] Assessing and Enhancing the Robustness of Large Language Models with Task Structure Variations for Logical Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09430>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 09:49:19 GMT
    Submission history From: Qiming Bao [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 13 Oct 2023 22:29:15 UTC (7,827 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 17 Oct 2023 02:08:24 UTC (7,827 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 18 Oct 2023 22:46:12 UTC (7,827 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 09:49:19 UTC (89 KB)
    Qiming Bao, Gael Gendron, Alex Yuxuan Peng, Wanjun Zhong, Neset Tan, Yang Chen, Michael Witbrock, Jiamou Liu

Large language models (LLMs), such as LLaMA, Alpaca, Vicuna, GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, have advanced the performance of AI systems on various natural language processing tasks to human-like levels. However, their generalisation and robustness when performing logical reasoning has not been sufficiently assessed. To comprehensively evaluate this ability, we develop three new logical reasoning datasets named "ReClor-plus", "LogiQA-plus" and "LogiQAv2-plus" that extend standard logical reasoning datasets to evaluate the robustness of the LLM's reasoning. For each, we create three subsets: the first with randomly shuffled options, the second with the correct choices replaced by "none of the other options is correct", and the third with a combination of shuffling and substitution. Experiments on these datasets show that these simple augmentations greatly hinder the models' performance. Despite their high performance on the original publicly available datasets, we find that all models perform poorly on these newly constructed datasets. We also demonstrate that introducing task variations into the training set can markedly improve the model's performance on both the original and our developed datasets. Finally, we show that applying logic-driven data augmentation for fine-tuning and prompting can enhance generalisation in both discriminative and generative models, offering a path to improving their robustness for tasks involving logical reasoning. Source code and data are made publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.13522] Teaching Language Models to Self-Improve through Interactive Demonstrations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13522>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 18:12:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiao Yu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 20 Oct 2023 14:11:04 UTC (310 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 18:12:16 UTC (351 KB)
    Xiao Yu, Baolin Peng, Michel Galley, Jianfeng Gao, Zhou Yu

The self-improving ability of large language models (LLMs), enabled by prompting them to analyze and revise their own outputs, has garnered significant interest in recent research. However, this ability has been shown to be absent and difficult to learn for smaller models, thus widening the performance gap between state-of-the-art LLMs and more cost-effective and faster ones. To reduce this gap, we introduce TriPosT, a training algorithm that endows smaller models with such self-improvement ability, and show that our approach can improve a LLaMA-7b's performance on math and reasoning tasks by up to 7.13%. In contrast to prior work, we achieve this by using the smaller model to interact with LLMs to collect feedback and improvements on its own generations. We then replay this experience to train the small model. Our experiments on four math and reasoning datasets show that the interactive experience of learning from and correcting its own mistakes is crucial for small models to improve their performance.

------------

`[2310.14159] Can Language Models Laugh at YouTube Short-form Videos? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14159>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 10:51:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Dayoon Ko [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 22 Oct 2023 03:01:38 UTC (11,707 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 26 Oct 2023 09:27:13 UTC (11,707 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 10:51:06 UTC (11,696 KB)
    Dayoon Ko, Sangho Lee, Gunhee Kim

As short-form funny videos on social networks are gaining popularity, it becomes demanding for AI models to understand them for better communication with humans. Unfortunately, previous video humor datasets target specific domains, such as speeches or sitcoms, and mostly focus on verbal cues. We curate a user-generated dataset of 10K multimodal funny videos from YouTube, called ExFunTube. Using a video filtering pipeline with GPT-3.5, we verify both verbal and visual elements contributing to humor. After filtering, we annotate each video with timestamps and text explanations for funny moments. Our ExFunTube is unique over existing datasets in that our videos cover a wide range of domains with various types of humor that necessitate a multimodal understanding of the content. Also, we develop a zero-shot video-to-text prompting to maximize video humor understanding of large language models (LLMs). With three different evaluation methods using automatic scores, rationale quality experiments, and human evaluations, we show that our prompting significantly improves LLMs' ability for humor explanation.

------------

`[2310.18964] LLMs and Finetuning: Benchmarking cross-domain performance for hate speech detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18964>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:01:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Kokil Jaidka [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 29 Oct 2023 10:07:32 UTC (521 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:01:08 UTC (499 KB)
    Ahmad Nasir, Aadish Sharma, Kokil Jaidka

In the evolving landscape of online communication, hate speech detection remains a formidable challenge, further compounded by the diversity of digital platforms. This study investigates the effectiveness and adaptability of pre-trained and fine-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs) in identifying hate speech, to address two central questions: (1) To what extent does the model performance depend on the fine-tuning and training parameters?, (2) To what extent do models generalize to cross-domain hate speech detection? and (3) What are the specific features of the datasets or models that influence the generalization potential? The experiment shows that LLMs offer a huge advantage over the state-of-the-art even without pretraining. To answer (1) we analyze 36 in-domain classifiers comprising LLaMA, Vicuna, and their variations in pre-trained and fine-tuned states across nine publicly available datasets that span a wide range of platforms and discussion forums. To answer (2), we assessed the performance of 288 out-of-domain classifiers for a given end-domain dataset. In answer to (3), ordinary least squares analyses suggest that the advantage of training with fine-grained hate speech labels is greater for smaller training datasets but washed away with the increase in dataset size. We conclude with a vision for the future of hate speech detection, emphasizing cross-domain generalizability and appropriate benchmarking practices.

------------

`[2311.05915] Fake Alignment: Are LLMs Really Aligned Well? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05915>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:32:14 GMT
    Submission history From: Yixu Wang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 10 Nov 2023 08:01:23 UTC (8,186 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 07:49:56 UTC (9,060 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:32:14 UTC (2,130 KB)
    Yixu Wang, Yan Teng, Kexin Huang, Chengqi Lyu, Songyang Zhang, Wenwei Zhang, Xingjun Ma, Yu-Gang Jiang, Yu Qiao, Yingchun Wang

The growing awareness of safety concerns in large language models (LLMs) has sparked considerable interest in the evaluation of safety. This study investigates an under-explored issue about the evaluation of LLMs, namely the substantial discrepancy in performance between multiple-choice questions and open-ended questions. Inspired by research on jailbreak attack patterns, we argue this is caused by mismatched generalization. That is, LLM only remembers the answer style for open-ended safety questions, which makes it unable to solve other forms of safety tests. We refer to this phenomenon as fake alignment and construct a comparative benchmark to empirically verify its existence in LLMs. We introduce a Fake alIgNment Evaluation (FINE) framework and two novel metrics--Consistency Score (CS) and Consistent Safety Score (CSS), which jointly assess two complementary forms of evaluation to quantify fake alignment and obtain corrected performance estimation. Applying FINE to 14 widely-used LLMs reveals several models with purported safety are poorly aligned in practice. Subsequently, we found that multiple-choice format data can also be used as high-quality contrast distillation-based fine-tuning data, which can strongly improve the alignment consistency of LLMs with minimal fine-tuning overhead. For data and code, see this https URL.

------------

`[2311.06899] Flames: Benchmarking Value Alignment of Chinese Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06899>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:16:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Yixu Wang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 12 Nov 2023 17:18:21 UTC (1,197 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:16:03 UTC (1,157 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 05:15:19 UTC (1,157 KB)
    Kexin Huang, Xiangyang Liu, Qianyu Guo, Tianxiang Sun, Jiawei Sun, Yaru Wang, Zeyang Zhou, Yixu Wang, Yan Teng, Xipeng Qiu, Yingchun Wang, Dahua Lin

The widespread adoption of large language models (LLMs) across various regions underscores the urgent need to evaluate their alignment with human values. Current benchmarks, however, fall short of effectively uncovering safety vulnerabilities in LLMs. Despite numerous models achieving high scores and 'topping the chart' in these evaluations, there is still a significant gap in LLMs' deeper alignment with human values and achieving genuine harmlessness. To this end, this paper proposes a value alignment benchmark named Flames, which encompasses both common harmlessness principles and a unique morality dimension that integrates specific Chinese values such as harmony. Accordingly, we carefully design adversarial prompts that incorporate complex scenarios and jailbreaking methods, mostly with implicit malice. By prompting 17 mainstream LLMs, we obtain model responses and rigorously annotate them for detailed evaluation. Our findings indicate that all the evaluated LLMs demonstrate relatively poor performance on Flames, particularly in the safety and fairness dimensions. We also develop a lightweight specified scorer capable of scoring LLMs across multiple dimensions to efficiently evaluate new models on the benchmark. The complexity of Flames has far exceeded existing benchmarks, setting a new challenge for contemporary LLMs and highlighting the need for further alignment of LLMs. Our benchmark is publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.07194] Exploring the Factual Consistency in Dialogue Comprehension of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07194>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:37:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Shuaijie She [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 13 Nov 2023 09:32:12 UTC (1,948 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 11:56:12 UTC (1,949 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:37:50 UTC (2,029 KB)
    Shuaijie She, Shujian Huang, Xingyun Wang, Yanke Zhou, Jiajun Chen

LLMs (Large Language Models) usually interact with users in the form of dialogue and generate responses following their instructions, which naturally require dialogue comprehension abilities. However, dialogue comprehension is a general language ability which is hard to be evaluated directly. In this work, we propose to perform the evaluation focusing on the factual consistency issue with the help of the dialogue summarization task. Besides evaluating and analyzing the dialogue summarization performance (DIAC-Sum) of different LLMs, we also derive factual questions from the generated summaries and use them as a more flexible measurement of dialogue comprehension (DIAC-QA). Our evaluation shows that, on average, 26.8% of the summaries generated by LLMs contain factual inconsistency. Even ChatGPT, the strongest model evaluated, has such errors in 16% of its summaries. For answering the factual questions, which is more challenging, the average error rate of all evaluated LLMs is 36.1%. Both results indicate serious deficiencies. Detailed analysis shows that the understanding of subject/object of the conversation is still challenging for LLMs. Furthermore, to stimulate and enhance the dialogue comprehension ability of LLMs, we propose a fine-tuning paradigm with auto-constructed multi-task data, which achieved a relative error rate reduction of 11% on DIAC-QA.

------------

`[2311.07884] Fair Abstractive Summarization of Diverse Perspectives <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07884>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:54:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Yusen Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 03:38:55 UTC (8,154 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:54:06 UTC (8,169 KB)
    Yusen Zhang, Nan Zhang, Yixin Liu, Alexander Fabbri, Junru Liu, Ryo Kamoi, Xiaoxin Lu, Caiming Xiong, Jieyu Zhao, Dragomir Radev, Kathleen McKeown, Rui Zhang

People from different social and demographic groups express diverse perspectives and conflicting opinions on a broad set of topics such as product reviews, healthcare, law, and politics. A fair summary should provide a comprehensive coverage of diverse perspectives without underrepresenting certain groups. However, current work in summarization metrics and Large Language Models (LLMs) evaluation has not explored fair abstractive summarization. In this paper, we systematically investigate fair abstractive summarization for user-generated data. We first formally define fairness in abstractive summarization as not underrepresenting perspectives of any groups of people, and we propose four reference-free automatic metrics by measuring the differences between target and source perspectives. We evaluate nine LLMs, including three GPT models, four LLaMA models, PaLM 2, and Claude, on six datasets collected from social media, online reviews, and recorded transcripts. Experiments show that both the model-generated and the human-written reference summaries suffer from low fairness. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of the common factors influencing fairness and propose three simple but effective methods to alleviate unfair summarization. Our dataset and code are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.08572] Low-Rank Adaptation for Multilingual Summarization: An Empirical Study <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08572>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 17:01:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Chenxi Whitehouse [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 22:32:39 UTC (268 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 17:01:34 UTC (152 KB)
    Chenxi Whitehouse, Fantine Huot, Jasmijn Bastings, Mostafa Dehghani, Chu-Cheng Lin, Mirella Lapata

Although the advancements of pre-trained Large Language Models have significantly accelerated recent progress in NLP, their ever-increasing size poses significant challenges for conventional fine-tuning, especially in memory-intensive tasks. We investigate the potential of Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning, focusing on Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), in the domain of multilingual summarization, a task that is both challenging (due to typically long inputs), and relatively unexplored. We conduct an extensive study across different data availability scenarios, including high- and low-data settings, and cross-lingual transfer, leveraging models of different sizes. Our findings reveal that LoRA is competitive with full fine-tuning when trained with high quantities of data, and excels in low-data scenarios and cross-lingual transfer. We also study different strategies for few-shot cross-lingual transfer, finding that continued LoRA tuning outperforms full fine-tuning and the dynamic composition of language-specific LoRA modules.

------------

`[2311.08968] Identifying Linear Relational Concepts in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08968>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 22:14:30 GMT
    Submission history From: David Chanin [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 14:01:41 UTC (9,253 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 22:14:30 UTC (9,306 KB)
    David Chanin, Anthony Hunter, Oana-Maria Camburu

Transformer language models (LMs) have been shown to represent concepts as directions in the latent space of hidden activations. However, for any human-interpretable concept, how can we find its direction in the latent space? We present a technique called linear relational concepts (LRC) for finding concept directions corresponding to human-interpretable concepts by first modeling the relation between subject and object as a linear relational embedding (LRE). We find that inverting the LRE and using earlier object layers results in a powerful technique for finding concept directions that outperforms standard black-box probing classifiers. We evaluate LRCs on their performance as concept classifiers as well as their ability to causally change model output.

------------

`[2311.09174] AbsPyramid: Benchmarking the Abstraction Ability of Language Models with a Unified Entailment Graph <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09174>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:24:24 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhaowei Wang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 18:11:23 UTC (530 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 08:20:19 UTC (704 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:24:24 UTC (804 KB)
    Zhaowei Wang, Haochen Shi, Weiqi Wang, Tianqing Fang, Hongming Zhang, Sehyun Choi, Xin Liu, Yangqiu Song

Cognitive research indicates that abstraction ability is essential in human intelligence, which remains under-explored in language models. In this paper, we present AbsPyramid, a unified entailment graph of 221K textual descriptions of abstraction knowledge. While existing resources only touch nouns or verbs within simplified events or specific domains, AbsPyramid collects abstract knowledge for three components of diverse events to comprehensively evaluate the abstraction ability of language models in the open domain. Experimental results demonstrate that current LLMs face challenges comprehending abstraction knowledge in zero-shot and few-shot settings. By training on our rich abstraction knowledge, we find LLMs can acquire basic abstraction abilities and generalize to unseen events. In the meantime, we empirically show that our benchmark is comprehensive to enhance LLMs across two previous abstraction tasks.

------------

`[2312.09818] SMILE: Multimodal Dataset for Understanding Laughter in Video with Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.09818>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:47:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Lee Hyun [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Dec 2023 14:17:45 UTC (3,341 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:47:54 UTC (10,965 KB)
    Lee Hyun, Kim Sung-Bin, Seungju Han, Youngjae Yu, Tae-Hyun Oh

Despite the recent advances of the artificial intelligence, building social intelligence remains a challenge. Among social signals, laughter is one of the distinctive expressions that occurs during social interactions between humans. In this work, we tackle a new challenge for machines to understand the rationale behind laughter in video, Video Laugh Reasoning. We introduce this new task to explain why people laugh in a particular video and a dataset for this task. Our proposed dataset, SMILE, comprises video clips and language descriptions of why people laugh. We propose a baseline by leveraging the reasoning capacity of large language models (LLMs) with textual video representation. Experiments show that our baseline can generate plausible explanations for laughter. We further investigate the scalability of our baseline by probing other video understanding tasks and in-the-wild videos. We release our dataset, code, and model checkpoints on this https URL.

------------

`[2312.11511] ComplexityNet: Increasing LLM Inference Efficiency by Learning Task Complexity <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11511>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:01:42 GMT
    Submission history From: Henry Bae [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 12 Dec 2023 05:38:55 UTC (1,187 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:01:42 UTC (573 KB)
    Henry Bae, Aghyad Deeb, Alex Fleury, Kehang Zhu

We present ComplexityNet, a streamlined language model designed for assessing task complexity. This model predicts the likelihood of accurate output by various language models, each with different capabilities. Our initial application of ComplexityNet involves the Mostly Basic Python Problems (MBPP) dataset. We pioneered the creation of the first set of labels to define task complexity. ComplexityNet achieved a notable 79% accuracy in determining task complexity, a significant improvement over the 34% accuracy of the original, non fine-tuned model. Furthermore, ComplexityNet effectively reduces computational resource usage by 90% compared to using the highest complexity model, while maintaining a high code generation accuracy of 86.7%. This study demonstrates that fine-tuning smaller models to categorize tasks based on their complexity can lead to a more balanced trade-off between accuracy and efficiency in the use of Large Language Models. Our findings suggest a promising direction for optimizing LLM applications, especially in resource-constrained environments.

------------

`[2312.17044] Length Extrapolation of Transformers: A Survey from the Perspective of Position Encoding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17044>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:03:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Liang Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Dec 2023 14:42:24 UTC (1,141 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 29 Dec 2023 02:29:17 UTC (1,141 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:03:54 UTC (6,589 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 04:56:52 UTC (6,589 KB)
    Liang Zhao, Xiaocheng Feng, Xiachong Feng, Bing Qin, Ting Liu

Transformer has taken the field of natural language processing (NLP) by storm since its birth. Further, Large language models (LLMs) built upon it have captured worldwide attention due to its superior abilities. Nevertheless, all Transformer-based models including these powerful LLMs suffer from a preset length limit and can hardly generalize from short training sequences to longer inference ones, namely, they can not perform length extrapolation. Hence, a plethora of methods have been proposed to enhance length extrapolation of Transformer, in which the positional encoding (PE) is recognized as the major factor. In this survey, we present these advances towards length extrapolation in a unified notation from the perspective of PE. Specifically, we first introduce extrapolatable PEs, including absolute and relative PEs. Then, we dive into extrapolation methods based on them, covering position interpolation and randomized position methods. Finally, several challenges and future directions in this area are highlighted. Through this survey, We aim to enable the reader to gain a deep understanding of existing methods and provide stimuli for future research.

------------

`[2401.05952] LLM-as-a-Coauthor: Can Mixed Human-Written and Machine-Generated Text Be Detected? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05952>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 09:15:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Dongping Chen [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 14:44:08 UTC (3,114 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 09:15:50 UTC (2,383 KB)
    Qihui Zhang, Chujie Gao, Dongping Chen, Yue Huang, Yixin Huang, Zhenyang Sun, Shilin Zhang, Weiye Li, Zhengyan Fu, Yao Wan, Lichao Sun

With the rapid development and widespread application of Large Language Models (LLMs), the use of Machine-Generated Text (MGT) has become increasingly common, bringing with it potential risks, especially in terms of quality and integrity in fields like news, education, and science. Current research mainly focuses on purely MGT detection without adequately addressing mixed scenarios, including AI-revised Human-Written Text (HWT) or human-revised MGT. To tackle this challenge, we define mixtext, a form of mixed text involving both AI and human-generated content. Then, we introduce MixSet, the first dataset dedicated to studying these mixtext scenarios. Leveraging MixSet, we executed comprehensive experiments to assess the efficacy of prevalent MGT detectors in handling mixtext situations, evaluating their performance in terms of effectiveness, robustness, and generalization. Our findings reveal that existing detectors struggle to identify mixtext, particularly in dealing with subtle modifications and style adaptability. This research underscores the urgent need for more fine-grain detectors tailored for mixtext, offering valuable insights for future research. Code and Models are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2401.06877] Promptly Predicting Structures: The Return of Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06877>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 18:27:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Maitrey Mehta [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 20:08:39 UTC (358 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 28 Mar 2024 17:17:17 UTC (426 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 18:27:17 UTC (364 KB)
    Maitrey Mehta, Valentina Pyatkin, Vivek Srikumar

Prompt-based methods have been used extensively across NLP to build zero- and few-shot label predictors. Many NLP tasks are naturally structured: that is, their outputs consist of multiple labels which constrain each other. Annotating data for such tasks can be cumbersome. Can the promise of the prompt-based paradigm be extended to such structured outputs? In this paper, we present a framework for constructing zero- and few-shot linguistic structure predictors. Our key insight is that we can use structural constraints -- and combinatorial inference derived from them -- to filter out inconsistent structures predicted by large language models. We instantiated this framework on two structured prediction tasks, and five datasets. Across all cases, our results show that enforcing consistency not only constructs structurally valid outputs, but also improves performance over the unconstrained variants.

------------

`[2401.10471] DeepEdit: Knowledge Editing as Decoding with Constraints <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10471>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:12:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Yiwei Wang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 Jan 2024 03:48:27 UTC (1,341 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 16:12:50 UTC (1,732 KB)
    Yiwei Wang, Muhao Chen, Nanyun Peng, Kai-Wei Chang

We propose a new perspective of knowledge editing (KE) for large language models (LLMs) that treats it as a constrained decoding problem. We design decoding constraints to regulate LLMs, ensuring coherence between reasoning steps when incorporating new knowledge. To enforce these constraints, we utilize a depth-first search to adaptively substitute new knowledge for the LLMs' original reasoning steps, greedily seeking the optimal path of multi-hop reasoning with new knowledge. From this vantage, we propose DEEPEDIT: Depth-first Search-based Decoding for Knowledge Editing. DEEPEDIT improves the KE of LLMs by enhancing the conciseness, coherence, pertinence, and receptiveness of reasoning with new knowledge. DEEPEDIT is flexibly applicable to any black-box LLM without requiring access to model parameters or token-wise distributions. In addition to DEEPEDIT, we propose two new KE benchmarks: MQuAKE-2002 and MQuAKE-hard, which are designed to provide more precise and challenging assessments of KE approaches. Qualitatively, DEEPEDIT enables LLMs to produce more succinct reasoning outputs in accordance with new knowledge. Quantitatively, it yields significant improvements on multiple KE benchmarks.

------------

`[2401.10472] Named Entity Recognition Under Domain Shift via Metric Learning for Life Sciences <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10472>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:06:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Hongyi Liu [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 Jan 2024 03:49:28 UTC (2,114 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:06:40 UTC (1,531 KB)
    Hongyi Liu, Qingyun Wang, Payam Karisani, Heng Ji

Named entity recognition is a key component of Information Extraction (IE), particularly in scientific domains such as biomedicine and chemistry, where large language models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, fall short. We investigate the applicability of transfer learning for enhancing a named entity recognition model trained in the biomedical domain (the source domain) to be used in the chemical domain (the target domain). A common practice for training such a model in a few-shot learning setting is to pretrain the model on the labeled source data, and then, to finetune it on a hand-full of labeled target examples. In our experiments, we observed that such a model is prone to mislabeling the source entities, which can often appear in the text, as the target entities. To alleviate this problem, we propose a model to transfer the knowledge from the source domain to the target domain, but, at the same time, to project the source entities and target entities into separate regions of the feature space. This diminishes the risk of mislabeling the source entities as the target entities. Our model consists of two stages: 1) entity grouping in the source domain, which incorporates knowledge from annotated events to establish relations between entities, and 2) entity discrimination in the target domain, which relies on pseudo labeling and contrastive learning to enhance discrimination between the entities in the two domains. We conduct our extensive experiments across three source and three target datasets, demonstrating that our method outperforms the baselines by up to 5% absolute value.

------------

`[2401.14295] Topologies of Reasoning: Demystifying Chains, Trees, and Graphs of Thoughts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14295>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:33:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Robert Gerstenberger [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 25 Jan 2024 16:34:00 UTC (2,247 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:33:36 UTC (2,290 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 5 Apr 2024 11:40:50 UTC (2,290 KB)
    Maciej Besta, Florim Memedi, Zhenyu Zhang, Robert Gerstenberger, Guangyuan Piao, Nils Blach, Piotr Nyczyk, Marcin Copik, Grzegorz Kwa\'sniewski, J\"urgen M\"uller, Lukas Gianinazzi, Ales Kubicek, Hubert Niewiadomski, Aidan O'Mahony, Onur Mutlu, Torsten Hoefler

The field of natural language processing (NLP) has witnessed significant progress in recent years, with a notable focus on improving large language models' (LLM) performance through innovative prompting techniques. Among these, prompt engineering coupled with structures has emerged as a promising paradigm, with designs such as Chain-of-Thought, Tree of Thoughts, or Graph of Thoughts, in which the overall LLM reasoning is guided by a structure such as a graph. As illustrated with numerous examples, this paradigm significantly enhances the LLM's capability to solve numerous tasks, ranging from logical or mathematical reasoning to planning or creative writing. To facilitate the understanding of this growing field and pave the way for future developments, we devise a general blueprint for effective and efficient LLM reasoning schemes. For this, we conduct an in-depth analysis of the prompt execution pipeline, clarifying and clearly defining different concepts. We then build the first taxonomy of structure-enhanced LLM reasoning schemes. We focus on identifying fundamental classes of harnessed structures, and we analyze the representations of these structures, algorithms executed with these structures, and many others. We refer to these structures as reasoning topologies, because their representation becomes to a degree spatial, as they are contained within the LLM context. Our study compares existing prompting schemes using the proposed taxonomy, discussing how certain design choices lead to different patterns in performance and cost. We also outline theoretical underpinnings, relationships between prompting and other parts of the LLM ecosystem such as knowledge bases, and the associated research challenges. Our work will help to advance future prompt engineering techniques.

------------

`[2401.15043] Health Text Simplification: An Annotated Corpus for Digestive Cancer Education and Novel Strategies for Reinforcement Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.15043>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 19:01:27 GMT
    Submission history From: Mohammad Sabik Irbaz [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 26 Jan 2024 18:13:57 UTC (343 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 19:01:27 UTC (16,965 KB)
    Md Mushfiqur Rahman, Mohammad Sabik Irbaz, Kai North, Michelle S. Williams, Marcos Zampieri, Kevin Lybarger

Objective: The reading level of health educational materials significantly influences the understandability and accessibility of the information, particularly for minoritized populations. Many patient educational resources surpass the reading level and complexity of widely accepted standards. There is a critical need for high-performing text simplification models in health information to enhance dissemination and literacy. This need is particularly acute in cancer education, where effective prevention and screening education can substantially reduce morbidity and mortality.
Methods: We introduce Simplified Digestive Cancer (SimpleDC), a parallel corpus of cancer education materials tailored for health text simplification research, comprising educational content from the American Cancer Society, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and National Cancer Institute. Utilizing SimpleDC alongside the existing Med-EASi corpus, we explore Large Language Model (LLM)-based simplification methods, including fine-tuning, reinforcement learning (RL), reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF), domain adaptation, and prompt-based approaches. Our experimentation encompasses Llama 2 and GPT-4. A novel RLHF reward function is introduced, featuring a lightweight model adept at distinguishing between original and simplified texts, thereby enhancing the model's effectiveness with unlabeled data.
Results: Fine-tuned Llama 2 models demonstrated high performance across various metrics. Our innovative RLHF reward function surpassed existing RL text simplification reward functions in effectiveness. The results underscore that RL/RLHF can augment fine-tuning, facilitating model training on unlabeled text and improving performance.

------------

`[2402.04616] TinyLLM: Learning a Small Student from Multiple Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04616>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 01:28:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Yijun Tian [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 7 Feb 2024 06:48:24 UTC (550 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 01:28:48 UTC (1,043 KB)
    Yijun Tian, Yikun Han, Xiusi Chen, Wei Wang, Nitesh V. Chawla

Transferring the reasoning capability from stronger large language models (LLMs) to smaller ones has been quite appealing, as smaller LLMs are more flexible to deploy with less expense. Among the existing solutions, knowledge distillation stands out due to its outstanding efficiency and generalization. However, existing methods suffer from several drawbacks, including limited knowledge diversity and the lack of rich contextual information. To solve the problems and facilitate the learning of compact language models, we propose TinyLLM, a new knowledge distillation paradigm to learn a small student LLM from multiple large teacher LLMs. In particular, we encourage the student LLM to not only generate the correct answers but also understand the rationales behind these answers. Given that different LLMs possess diverse reasoning skills, we guide the student model to assimilate knowledge from various teacher LLMs. We further introduce an in-context example generator and a teacher-forcing Chain-of-Thought strategy to ensure that the rationales are accurate and grounded in contextually appropriate scenarios. Extensive experiments on six datasets across two reasoning tasks demonstrate the superiority of our method. Results show that TinyLLM can outperform large teacher LLMs significantly, despite a considerably smaller model size.

------------

`[2402.08498] Auditing Counterfire: Evaluating Advanced Counterargument Generation with Evidence and Style <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08498>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:08:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Kokil Jaidka [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 13 Feb 2024 14:53:12 UTC (1,868 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 23 Feb 2024 14:07:41 UTC (1,826 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:08:39 UTC (1,077 KB)
    Preetika Verma, Kokil Jaidka, Svetlana Churina

We audited counter-arguments generated by large language models (LLMs), focusing on their ability to generate evidence-based and stylistic counter-arguments to posts from the Reddit ChangeMyView dataset. Our evaluation is based on Counterfire: a new dataset of 32,000 counter-arguments generated from large language models (LLMs): GPT-3.5 Turbo and Koala and their fine-tuned variants, and PaLM 2, with varying prompts for evidence use and argumentative style. GPT-3.5 Turbo ranked highest in argument quality with strong paraphrasing and style adherence, particularly in `reciprocity' style arguments. However, the `No Style' counter-arguments proved most persuasive on average. The findings suggest that a balance between evidentiality and stylistic elements is vital to a compelling counter-argument. We close with a discussion of future research directions and implications for fine-tuning LLMs.

------------

`[2402.10038] RS-DPO: A Hybrid Rejection Sampling and Direct Preference Optimization Method for Alignment of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10038>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:10:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Saeed Khaki [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 16:00:58 UTC (1,063 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:10:47 UTC (1,062 KB)
    Saeed Khaki, JinJin Li, Lan Ma, Liu Yang, Prathap Ramachandra

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has been extensively employed to align large language models with user intent. However, proximal policy optimization (PPO) based RLHF is occasionally unstable requiring significant hyperparameter finetuning, and computationally expensive to maximize the estimated reward during alignment. Recently, direct preference optimization (DPO) is proposed to address those challenges. However, DPO relies on contrastive responses generated from human annotator and alternative LLM, instead of the policy model, limiting the effectiveness of the RLHF. In this paper, we addresses both challenges by systematically combining rejection sampling (RS) and DPO. Our proposed method, RS-DPO, initiates with the development of a supervised fine-tuned policy model (SFT). A varied set of k responses per prompt are sampled directly from the SFT model. RS-DPO identifies pairs of contrastive samples based on their reward distribution. Finally, we apply DPO with the contrastive samples to align the model to human preference. Our experiments indicate that our proposed method effectively fine-tunes LLMs with limited resource environments, leading to improved alignment with user intent. Furthermore, it outperforms existing methods, including RS, PPO, and DPO.

------------

`[2402.11863] How Interpretable are Reasoning Explanations from Prompting Large Language Models? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11863>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 08:33:11 GMT
    Submission history From: Wei Jie Yeo Mr [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 06:11:28 UTC (9,768 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 16:26:18 UTC (9,768 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 08:33:11 UTC (9,765 KB)
    Wei Jie Yeo, Ranjan Satapathy, Rick Siow Mong Goh, Erik Cambria

Prompt Engineering has garnered significant attention for enhancing the performance of large language models across a multitude of tasks. Techniques such as the Chain-of-Thought not only bolster task performance but also delineate a clear trajectory of reasoning steps, offering a tangible form of explanation for the audience. Prior works on interpretability assess the reasoning chains yielded by Chain-of-Thought solely along a singular axis, namely faithfulness. We present a comprehensive and multifaceted evaluation of interpretability, examining not only faithfulness but also robustness and utility across multiple commonsense reasoning benchmarks. Likewise, our investigation is not confined to a single prompting technique; it expansively covers a multitude of prevalent prompting techniques employed in large language models, thereby ensuring a wide-ranging and exhaustive evaluation. In addition, we introduce a simple interpretability alignment technique, termed Self-Entailment-Alignment Chain-of-thought, that yields more than 70\% improvements across multiple dimensions of interpretability. Code is available at this https URL

------------

`[2402.13249] TofuEval: Evaluating Hallucinations of LLMs on Topic-Focused Dialogue Summarization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13249>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 15:30:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Liyan Tang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 18:58:49 UTC (10,253 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 15:30:34 UTC (10,253 KB)
    Liyan Tang, Igor Shalyminov, Amy Wing-mei Wong, Jon Burnsky, Jake W. Vincent, Yu'an Yang, Siffi Singh, Song Feng, Hwanjun Song, Hang Su, Lijia Sun, Yi Zhang, Saab Mansour, Kathleen McKeown

Single document news summarization has seen substantial progress on faithfulness in recent years, driven by research on the evaluation of factual consistency, or hallucinations. We ask whether these advances carry over to other text summarization domains. We propose a new evaluation benchmark on topic-focused dialogue summarization, generated by LLMs of varying sizes. We provide binary sentence-level human annotations of the factual consistency of these summaries along with detailed explanations of factually inconsistent sentences. Our analysis shows that existing LLMs hallucinate significant amounts of factual errors in the dialogue domain, regardless of the model's size. On the other hand, when LLMs, including GPT-4, serve as binary factual evaluators, they perform poorly and can be outperformed by prevailing state-of-the-art specialized factuality evaluation metrics. Finally, we conducted an analysis of hallucination types with a curated error taxonomy. We find that there are diverse errors and error distributions in model-generated summaries and that non-LLM based metrics can capture all error types better than LLM-based evaluators.

------------

`[2402.14320] Triad: A Framework Leveraging a Multi-Role LLM-based Agent to Solve Knowledge Base Question Answering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14320>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:46:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Chang Zong [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 22 Feb 2024 06:23:37 UTC (105 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:46:01 UTC (150 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 04:23:44 UTC (150 KB)
    Chang Zong, Yuchen Yan, Weiming Lu, Eliot Huang, Jian Shao, Yueting Zhuang

Recent progress with LLM-based agents has shown promising results across various tasks. However, their use in answering questions from knowledge bases remains largely unexplored. Implementing a KBQA system using traditional methods is challenging due to the shortage of task-specific training data and the complexity of creating task-focused model structures. In this paper, we present Triad, a unified framework that utilizes an LLM-based agent with three roles for KBQA tasks. The agent is assigned three roles to tackle different KBQA subtasks: agent as a generalist for mastering various subtasks, as a decision maker for the selection of candidates, and as an advisor for answering questions with knowledge. Our KBQA framework is executed in four phases, involving the collaboration of the agent's multiple roles. We evaluated the performance of our framework using three benchmark datasets, and the results show that our framework outperforms state-of-the-art systems on the LC-QuAD and YAGO-QA benchmarks, yielding F1 scores of 11.8% and 20.7%, respectively.

------------

`[2402.16671] StructLM: Towards Building Generalist Models for Structured Knowledge Grounding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.16671>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 20:14:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Alex Zhuang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 26 Feb 2024 15:47:01 UTC (554 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 28 Feb 2024 14:49:03 UTC (555 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 20:14:20 UTC (1,141 KB)
    Alex Zhuang, Ge Zhang, Tianyu Zheng, Xinrun Du, Junjie Wang, Weiming Ren, Stephen W. Huang, Jie Fu, Xiang Yue, Wenhu Chen

Structured data sources, such as tables, graphs, and databases, are ubiquitous knowledge sources. Despite the demonstrated capabilities of large language models (LLMs) on plain text, their proficiency in interpreting and utilizing structured data remains limited. Our investigation reveals a notable deficiency in LLMs' ability to process structured data, e.g., ChatGPT lags behind state-of-the-art (SoTA) model by an average of 35%. To augment the Structured Knowledge Grounding (SKG) capabilities in LLMs, we have developed a comprehensive instruction tuning dataset comprising 1.1 million examples. Utilizing this dataset, we train a series of models, referred to as StructLM, based on the Code-LLaMA architecture, ranging from 7B to 34B parameters. Our StructLM series surpasses task-specific models on 14 out of 18 evaluated datasets and establishes new SoTA achievements on 7 SKG tasks. Furthermore, StructLM demonstrates strong generalization across 6 novel held-out SKG tasks, outperforming TableLlama by an average of 35\% and Flan-UL2 20B by an average of 10\%. Contrary to expectations, we observe that scaling model size offers marginal benefits, with StructLM-34B showing only slight improvements over StructLM-7B. This suggests that structured knowledge grounding is still a challenging task and requires more innovative design to push to a new level.

------------

`[2402.17916] LLM-Resistant Math Word Problem Generation via Adversarial Attacks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17916>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 04:16:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Roy Xie [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 27 Feb 2024 22:07:52 UTC (2,407 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 04:16:20 UTC (4,508 KB)
    Roy Xie, Chengxuan Huang, Junlin Wang, Bhuwan Dhingra

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly transformed the educational landscape. As current plagiarism detection tools struggle to keep pace with LLMs' rapid advancements, the educational community faces the challenge of assessing students' true problem-solving abilities in the presence of LLMs. In this work, we explore a new paradigm for ensuring fair evaluation -- generating adversarial examples which preserve the structure and difficulty of the original questions aimed for assessment, but are unsolvable by LLMs. Focusing on the domain of math word problems, we leverage abstract syntax trees to structurally generate adversarial examples that cause LLMs to produce incorrect answers by simply editing the numeric values in the problems. We conduct experiments on various open- and closed-source LLMs, quantitatively and qualitatively demonstrating that our method significantly degrades their math problem-solving ability. We identify shared vulnerabilities among LLMs and propose a cost-effective approach to attack high-cost models. Additionally, we conduct automatic analysis on math problems and investigate the cause of failure, offering a nuanced view into model's limitation.

------------

`[2403.00813] UrbanGPT: Spatio-Temporal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00813>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 06:32:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhonghang Li [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 25 Feb 2024 12:37:29 UTC (606 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 06:32:03 UTC (606 KB)
    Zhonghang Li, Lianghao Xia, Jiabin Tang, Yong Xu, Lei Shi, Long Xia, Dawei Yin, Chao Huang

Spatio-temporal prediction aims to forecast and gain insights into the ever-changing dynamics of urban environments across both time and space. Its purpose is to anticipate future patterns, trends, and events in diverse facets of urban life, including transportation, population movement, and crime rates. Although numerous efforts have been dedicated to developing neural network techniques for accurate predictions on spatio-temporal data, it is important to note that many of these methods heavily depend on having sufficient labeled data to generate precise spatio-temporal representations. Unfortunately, the issue of data scarcity is pervasive in practical urban sensing scenarios. Consequently, it becomes necessary to build a spatio-temporal model with strong generalization capabilities across diverse spatio-temporal learning scenarios. Taking inspiration from the remarkable achievements of large language models (LLMs), our objective is to create a spatio-temporal LLM that can exhibit exceptional generalization capabilities across a wide range of downstream urban tasks. To achieve this objective, we present the UrbanGPT, which seamlessly integrates a spatio-temporal dependency encoder with the instruction-tuning paradigm. This integration enables LLMs to comprehend the complex inter-dependencies across time and space, facilitating more comprehensive and accurate predictions under data scarcity. To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we conduct extensive experiments on various public datasets, covering different spatio-temporal prediction tasks. The results consistently demonstrate that our UrbanGPT, with its carefully designed architecture, consistently outperforms state-of-the-art baselines. These findings highlight the potential of building large language models for spatio-temporal learning, particularly in zero-shot scenarios where labeled data is scarce.

------------

`[2403.01139] ParallelPARC: A Scalable Pipeline for Generating Natural-Language Analogies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.01139>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:40:03 GMT
    Submission history From: Oren Sultan [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 2 Mar 2024 08:53:40 UTC (4,489 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 18 Mar 2024 14:55:46 UTC (4,489 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 15:40:03 UTC (4,489 KB)
    Oren Sultan, Yonatan Bitton, Ron Yosef, Dafna Shahaf

Analogy-making is central to human cognition, allowing us to adapt to novel situations -- an ability that current AI systems still lack. Most analogy datasets today focus on simple analogies (e.g., word analogies); datasets including complex types of analogies are typically manually curated and very small. We believe that this holds back progress in computational analogy. In this work, we design a data generation pipeline, ParallelPARC (Parallel Paragraph Creator) leveraging state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) to create complex, paragraph-based analogies, as well as distractors, both simple and challenging. We demonstrate our pipeline and create ProPara-Logy, a dataset of analogies between scientific processes. We publish a gold-set, validated by humans, and a silver-set, generated automatically. We test LLMs' and humans' analogy recognition in binary and multiple-choice settings, and found that humans outperform the best models (~13% gap) after a light supervision. We demonstrate that our silver-set is useful for training models. Lastly, we show challenging distractors confuse LLMs, but not humans. We hope our pipeline will encourage research in this emerging field.

------------

`[2403.04801] Alpaca against Vicuna: Using LLMs to Uncover Memorization of LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04801>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 04:33:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Aly Kassem [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 5 Mar 2024 19:32:01 UTC (1,898 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 04:33:56 UTC (3,386 KB)
    Aly M. Kassem, Omar Mahmoud, Niloofar Mireshghallah, Hyunwoo Kim, Yulia Tsvetkov, Yejin Choi, Sherif Saad, Santu Rana

In this paper, we introduce a black-box prompt optimization method that uses an attacker LLM agent to uncover higher levels of memorization in a victim agent, compared to what is revealed by prompting the target model with the training data directly, which is the dominant approach of quantifying memorization in LLMs. We use an iterative rejection-sampling optimization process to find instruction-based prompts with two main characteristics: (1) minimal overlap with the training data to avoid presenting the solution directly to the model, and (2) maximal overlap between the victim model's output and the training data, aiming to induce the victim to spit out training data. We observe that our instruction-based prompts generate outputs with 23.7% higher overlap with training data compared to the baseline prefix-suffix measurements. Our findings show that (1) instruction-tuned models can expose pre-training data as much as their base-models, if not more so, (2) contexts other than the original training data can lead to leakage, and (3) using instructions proposed by other LLMs can open a new avenue of automated attacks that we should further study and explore. The code can be found at this https URL .

------------

`[2403.05766] FLAP: Flow-Adhering Planning with Constrained Decoding in LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05766>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:45:22 GMT
    Submission history From: Shamik Roy [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 02:27:45 UTC (7,367 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:45:22 UTC (7,368 KB)
    Shamik Roy, Sailik Sengupta, Daniele Bonadiman, Saab Mansour, Arshit Gupta

Planning is a crucial task for agents in task oriented dialogs (TODs). Human agents typically resolve user issues by following predefined workflows, decomposing workflow steps into actionable items, and performing actions by executing APIs in order; all of which require reasoning and planning. With the recent advances in LLMs, there have been increasing attempts to use them for task planning and API usage. However, the faithfulness of the plans to predefined workflows and API dependencies, is not guaranteed with LLMs. Moreover, workflows in real life are often custom-defined and prone to changes; hence, adaptation is desirable. To study this, we propose the problem of faithful planning in TODs that needs to resolve user intents by following predefined flows and preserving API dependencies. To solve this problem, we propose FLAP, a Flow-Adhering Planning algorithm based on constrained decoding with lookahead heuristic for LLMs. Our algorithm alleviates the need for finetuning LLMs using domain specific (plan/dependency) data, enables quick adaptation to predefined flows, and outperforms other decoding and prompting-based baselines. Further, our algorithm empowers smaller LLMs (7B) to perform at par larger LLMs (30B-40B).

------------

`[2403.07378] SVD-LLM: Truncation-aware Singular Value Decomposition for Large Language Model Compression <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07378>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:04:15 GMT
    Submission history From: Xin Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 07:31:18 UTC (318 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 02:59:10 UTC (328 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:04:15 UTC (382 KB)
    Xin Wang, Yu Zheng, Zhongwei Wan, Mi Zhang

The advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have been hindered by their substantial sizes, which necessitate LLM compression methods for practical deployment. Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) offers a promising solution for LLM compression. However, state-of-the-art SVD-based LLM compression methods have two key limitations: truncating smaller singular values may lead to higher compression loss, and the lack of update on the compressed weight after SVD truncation. In this work, we propose SVD-LLM, a new SVD-based LLM compression method that addresses the limitations of existing methods. SVD-LLM incorporates a truncation-aware data whitening strategy to ensure a direct mapping between singular values and compression loss. Moreover, SVD-LLM adopts a layer-wise closed-form model parameter update strategy to compensate for accuracy degradation under high compression ratios. We evaluate SVD-LLM on a total of 10 datasets and eight models from three different LLM families at four different scales. Our results demonstrate the superiority of SVD-LLM over state-of-the-arts, especially at high model compression ratios.

------------

`[2403.09522] MT-PATCHER: Selective and Extendable Knowledge Distillation from Large Language Models for Machine Translation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09522>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:11:32 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiahuan Li [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 14 Mar 2024 16:07:39 UTC (8,571 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:11:32 UTC (8,573 KB)
    Jiahuan Li, Shanbo Cheng, Shujian Huang and Jiajun Chen

Large Language Models (LLM) have demonstrated their strong ability in the field of machine translation (MT), yet they suffer from high computational cost and latency. Therefore, transferring translation knowledge from giant LLMs to medium-sized machine translation models is a promising research direction. However, traditional knowledge distillation methods do not take the capability of student and teacher models into consideration, therefore repeatedly teaching student models on the knowledge they have learned, and failing to extend to novel contexts and knowledge. In this paper, we propose a framework called MT-Patcher, which transfers knowledge from LLMs to existing MT models in a selective, comprehensive and proactive manner. Considering the current translation ability of student MT models, we only identify and correct their translation errors, instead of distilling the whole translation from the teacher. Leveraging the strong language abilities of LLMs, we instruct LLM teachers to synthesize diverse contexts and anticipate more potential errors for the student. Experiment results on translating both specific language phenomena and general MT benchmarks demonstrate that finetuning the student MT model on about 10% examples can achieve comparable results to the traditional knowledge distillation method, and synthesized potential errors and diverse contexts further improve translation performances on unseen contexts and words.

------------

`[2403.11124] Scaling Data Diversity for Fine-Tuning Language Models in Human Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11124>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:48:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Feifan Song [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 17 Mar 2024 07:08:55 UTC (203 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:48:16 UTC (203 KB)
    Feifan Song, Bowen Yu, Hao Lang, Haiyang Yu, Fei Huang, Houfeng Wang, Yongbin Li

Alignment with human preference prevents large language models (LLMs) from generating misleading or toxic content while requiring high-cost human feedback. Assuming resources of human annotation are limited, there are two different ways of allocating considered: more diverse PROMPTS or more diverse RESPONSES to be labeled. Nonetheless, a straightforward comparison between their impact is absent. In this work, we first control the diversity of both sides according to the number of samples for fine-tuning, which can directly reflect their influence. We find that instead of numerous prompts, more responses but fewer prompts better trigger LLMs for human alignment. Additionally, the concept of diversity for prompts can be more complex than responses that are typically quantified by single digits. Consequently, a new formulation of prompt diversity is proposed, further implying a linear correlation with the final performance of LLMs after fine-tuning. We also leverage it on data augmentation and conduct experiments to show its effect on different algorithms.

------------

`[2403.11369] What Makes Math Word Problems Challenging for LLMs? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11369>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 13:58:34 GMT
    Submission history From: KV Aditya Srivatsa [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 17 Mar 2024 23:18:40 UTC (5,113 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 13:58:34 UTC (9,700 KB)
    KV Aditya Srivatsa and Ekaterina Kochmar

This paper investigates the question of what makes math word problems (MWPs) in English challenging for large language models (LLMs). We conduct an in-depth analysis of the key linguistic and mathematical characteristics of MWPs. In addition, we train feature-based classifiers to better understand the impact of each feature on the overall difficulty of MWPs for prominent LLMs and investigate whether this helps predict how well LLMs fare against specific categories of MWPs.

------------

`[2403.11399] X-LLaVA: Optimizing Bilingual Large Vision-Language Alignment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11399>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 06:57:20 GMT
    Submission history From: DongJae Shin [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 18 Mar 2024 01:14:47 UTC (12,284 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 27 Mar 2024 07:05:22 UTC (12,284 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 06:57:20 UTC (12,284 KB)
    Dongjae Shin, Hyeonseok Lim, Inho Won, Changsu Choi, Minjun Kim, Seungwoo Song, Hangyeol Yoo, Sangmin Kim, Kyungtae Lim

The impressive development of large language models (LLMs) is expanding into the realm of large multimodal models (LMMs), which incorporate multiple types of data beyond text. However, the nature of multimodal models leads to significant expenses in the creation of training data. Furthermore, constructing multilingual data for LMMs presents its own set of challenges due to language diversity and complexity. Therefore, in this study, we propose two cost-effective methods to solve this problem: (1) vocabulary expansion and pretraining of multilingual LLM for specific languages, and (2) automatic and elaborate construction of multimodal datasets using GPT4-V. Based on015 these methods, we constructed a 91K English-Korean-Chinese multilingual, multimodal training dataset. Additionally, we developed a bilingual multimodal model that exhibits excellent performance in both Korean and English, surpassing existing approaches.

------------

`[2403.17104] Attribute First, then Generate: Locally-attributable Grounded Text Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17104>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:57:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Aviv Slobodkin [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 25 Mar 2024 18:41:47 UTC (8,448 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:57:40 UTC (8,450 KB)
    Aviv Slobodkin, Eran Hirsch, Arie Cattan, Tal Schuster, Ido Dagan

Recent efforts to address hallucinations in Large Language Models (LLMs) have focused on attributed text generation, which supplements generated texts with citations of supporting sources for post-generation fact-checking and corrections. Yet, these citations often point to entire documents or paragraphs, burdening users with extensive verification work. In this paper, we introduce a locally-attributable text generation approach, prioritizing concise attributions. Our method, named ``Attribute First, then Generate'', breaks down the conventional end-to-end generation process into three intuitive steps: content selection, sentence planning, and sequential sentence generation. By initially identifying relevant source segments (``select first'') and then conditioning the generation process on them (``then generate''), we ensure these segments also act as the output's fine-grained attributions (``select'' becomes ``attribute''). Tested on Multi-document Summarization and Long-form Question-answering, our method not only yields more concise citations than the baselines but also maintains - and in some cases enhances - both generation quality and attribution accuracy. Furthermore, it significantly reduces the time required for fact verification by human assessors.

------------

`[2403.18647] SDSAT: Accelerating LLM Inference through Speculative Decoding with Semantic Adaptive Tokens <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.18647>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:48:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Chengbo Liu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 27 Mar 2024 14:54:27 UTC (5,384 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:48:46 UTC (5,384 KB)
    Chengbo Liu, Yong Zhu

We propose an acceleration scheme for large language models (LLMs) through Speculative Decoding with Semantic Adaptive Tokens (SDSAT). The primary objective of this design is to enhance the LLM model's ability to generate draft tokens more accurately without compromising the model's accuracy. The core strategies involve: 1) Fine-tune the model by incorporating semantic adaptive tokens that possess flexible decoding capabilities without changing its structure, allowing them to generate high-quality draft tokens. 2) By employing a training method that does not affect the standard tokens, the model can acquire parallel decoding abilities atop its original framework with minimal training overhead. 3) We have designed the "two-step-draft-then-verify" generation strategies using both greedy search and nucleus sampling. Experiments conducted on the CodeLlama-13B and 7B models have yielded speed increases of over 3.5X and 3.0X, respectively. Please refer to this https URL.

------------

`[2403.19135] Compressing Large Language Models by Streamlining the Unimportant Layer <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19135>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 08:16:58 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiaodong Chen [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Mar 2024 04:12:13 UTC (217 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 08:16:58 UTC (217 KB)
    Xiaodong Chen, Yuxuan Hu, Jing Zhang

Large language models (LLM) have been extensively applied in various natural language tasks and domains, but their applicability is constrained by the large number of parameters of the models. Consequently, there is an increasing emphasis on compact models that exhibit high performance. In this study, we observe that different layers in LLM have varying degrees of perturbation on the hidden states, which allows us to identify less important layers. Based on this phenomenon, we propose LLM-Streamline, which consists of two parts: layer pruning, where we remove a set of consecutive layers with the lowest importance in the model according to the target sparsity; and layer replacement, where we train a lightweight model to substitute the pruned layers, thereby mitigating the performance degradation caused by pruning. In our experiments, we utilize structures such as a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) and a transformer layer as lightweight models and ultimately demonstrate that a single MLP can effectively fit the pruned layers. Comprehensive experiments show that our proposed method, LLM-Streamline, outperforms previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) model pruning methods.

------------

`[2403.19318] TableLLM: Enabling Tabular Data Manipulation by LLMs in Real Office Usage Scenarios <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19318>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:10:56 GMT
    Submission history From: Bohan Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Mar 2024 11:21:12 UTC (3,244 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:10:56 UTC (3,244 KB)
    Xiaokang Zhang, Jing Zhang, Zeyao Ma, Yang Li, Bohan Zhang, Guanlin Li, Zijun Yao, Kangli Xu, Jinchang Zhou, Daniel Zhang-Li, Jifan Yu, Shu Zhao, Juanzi Li, Jie Tang

We introduce TableLLM, a robust large language model (LLM) with 13 billion parameters, purpose-built for proficiently handling tabular data manipulation tasks, whether they are embedded within documents or spreadsheets, catering to real-world office scenarios. We propose a distant supervision method for training, which comprises a reasoning process extension strategy, aiding in training LLMs to understand reasoning patterns more effectively as well as a cross-way validation strategy, ensuring the quality of the automatically generated data. To evaluate the performance of TableLLM, we have crafted a benchmark tailored to address both document and spreadsheet formats as well as constructed a well-organized evaluation pipeline capable of handling both scenarios. Thorough evaluations underscore the advantages of TableLLM when compared to various existing general-purpose and tabular data-focused LLMs. We have publicly released the model checkpoint, source code, benchmarks, and a web application for user interaction.Our codes and data are publicly available at this https URL.

------------

`[2403.19928] DiJiang: Efficient Large Language Models through Compact Kernelization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19928>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:17:01 GMT
    Submission history From: Hanting Chen [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 02:32:15 UTC (252 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 09:17:01 UTC (252 KB)
    Hanting Chen, Zhicheng Liu, Xutao Wang, Yuchuan Tian, Yunhe Wang

In an effort to reduce the computational load of Transformers, research on linear attention has gained significant momentum. However, the improvement strategies for attention mechanisms typically necessitate extensive retraining, which is impractical for large language models with a vast array of parameters. In this paper, we present DiJiang, a novel Frequency Domain Kernelization approach that enables the transformation of a pre-trained vanilla Transformer into a linear complexity model with little training costs. By employing a weighted Quasi-Monte Carlo method for sampling, the proposed approach theoretically offers superior approximation efficiency. To further reduce the training computational complexity, our kernelization is based on Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) operations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed method achieves comparable performance to the original Transformer, but with significantly reduced training costs and much faster inference speeds. Our DiJiang-7B achieves comparable performance with LLaMA2-7B on various benchmark while requires only about 1/50 training cost. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2006.04761] Can Temporal-Difference and Q-Learning Learn Representation? A Mean-Field Theory <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.04761>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:03:28 GMT
    Submission history From: Yufeng Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 8 Jun 2020 17:25:22 UTC (54 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 04:03:28 UTC (54 KB)
    Yufeng Zhang, Qi Cai, Zhuoran Yang, Yongxin Chen, Zhaoran Wang

Temporal-difference and Q-learning play a key role in deep reinforcement learning, where they are empowered by expressive nonlinear function approximators such as neural networks. At the core of their empirical successes is the learned feature representation, which embeds rich observations, e.g., images and texts, into the latent space that encodes semantic structures. Meanwhile, the evolution of such a feature representation is crucial to the convergence of temporal-difference and Q-learning.
In particular, temporal-difference learning converges when the function approximator is linear in a feature representation, which is fixed throughout learning, and possibly diverges otherwise. We aim to answer the following questions: When the function approximator is a neural network, how does the associated feature representation evolve? If it converges, does it converge to the optimal one?
We prove that, utilizing an overparameterized two-layer neural network, temporal-difference and Q-learning globally minimize the mean-squared projected Bellman error at a sublinear rate. Moreover, the associated feature representation converges to the optimal one, generalizing the previous analysis of Cai et al. (2019) in the neural tangent kernel regime, where the associated feature representation stabilizes at the initial one. The key to our analysis is a mean-field perspective, which connects the evolution of a finite-dimensional parameter to its limiting counterpart over an infinite-dimensional Wasserstein space. Our analysis generalizes to soft Q-learning, which is further connected to policy gradient.

------------

`[2204.09787] Reinforcement Learning from Partial Observation: Linear Function Approximation with Provable Sample Efficiency <https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.09787>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 00:46:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Qi Cai [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Apr 2022 21:15:38 UTC (409 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 13 Jun 2022 20:28:19 UTC (622 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 00:46:06 UTC (68 KB)
    Qi Cai, Zhuoran Yang, Zhaoran Wang

We study reinforcement learning for partially observed Markov decision processes (POMDPs) with infinite observation and state spaces, which remains less investigated theoretically. To this end, we make the first attempt at bridging partial observability and function approximation for a class of POMDPs with a linear structure. In detail, we propose a reinforcement learning algorithm (Optimistic Exploration via Adversarial Integral Equation or OP-TENET) that attains an $\epsilon$-optimal policy within $O(1/\epsilon^2)$ episodes. In particular, the sample complexity scales polynomially in the intrinsic dimension of the linear structure and is independent of the size of the observation and state spaces.
The sample efficiency of OP-TENET is enabled by a sequence of ingredients: (i) a Bellman operator with finite memory, which represents the value function in a recursive manner, (ii) the identification and estimation of such an operator via an adversarial integral equation, which features a smoothed discriminator tailored to the linear structure, and (iii) the exploration of the observation and state spaces via optimism, which is based on quantifying the uncertainty in the adversarial integral equation.

------------

`[2309.14592] Efficient Post-training Quantization with FP8 Formats <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14592>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 23:05:53 GMT
    Submission history From: Haihao Shen [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 26 Sep 2023 00:58:36 UTC (9,048 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 23:05:53 UTC (8,257 KB)
    Haihao Shen, Naveen Mellempudi, Xin He, Qun Gao, Chang Wang, and Mengni Wang

Recent advances in deep learning methods such as LLMs and Diffusion models have created a need for improved quantization methods that can meet the computational demands of these modern architectures while maintaining accuracy. Towards this goal, we study the advantages of FP8 data formats for post-training quantization across 75 unique network architectures covering a wide range of tasks, including machine translation, language modeling, text generation, image classification, generation, and segmentation. We examine three different FP8 representations (E5M2, E4M3, and E3M4) to study the effects of varying degrees of trade-off between dynamic range and precision on model accuracy. Based on our extensive study, we developed a quantization workflow that generalizes across different network architectures. Our empirical results show that FP8 formats outperform INT8 in multiple aspects, including workload coverage (92.64% vs. 65.87%), model accuracy and suitability for a broader range of operations. Furthermore, our findings suggest that E4M3 is better suited for NLP models, whereas E3M4 performs marginally better than E4M3 on computer vision tasks. The code is publicly available on Intel Neural Compressor: this https URL.

------------

`[2310.03294] DISTFLASHATTN: Distributed Memory-efficient Attention for Long-context LLMs Training <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03294>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 21:11:08 GMT
    Submission history From: Dacheng Li [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 5 Oct 2023 03:47:57 UTC (599 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 21:11:08 UTC (14,827 KB)
    Dacheng Li, Rulin Shao, Anze Xie, Eric P. Xing, Xuezhe Ma, Ion Stoica, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Hao Zhang

FlashAttention (Dao, 2023) effectively reduces the quadratic peak memory usage to linear in training transformer-based large language models (LLMs) on a single GPU. In this paper, we introduce DISTFLASHATTN, a distributed memory-efficient attention mechanism optimized for long-context LLMs training. We propose three key techniques: token-level workload balancing, overlapping key-value communication, and a rematerialization-aware gradient checkpointing algorithm. We evaluate DISTFLASHATTN on Llama-7B and variants with sequence lengths from 32K to 512K. DISTFLASHATTN achieves 8x longer sequences, 4.45 - 5.64x speedup compared to Ring Self-Attention, 2 - 8x longer sequences, 1.24 - 2.01x speedup compared to Megatron-LM with FlashAttention. It achieves 1.67x and 1.26 - 1.88x speedup compared to recent Ring Attention and DeepSpeed-Ulysses. Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.10908] Unlocking Emergent Modularity in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10908>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 11:37:39 GMT
    Submission history From: Zihan Qiu [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 17 Oct 2023 01:02:32 UTC (1,368 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 11:37:39 UTC (1,810 KB)
    Zihan Qiu, Zeyu Huang, Jie Fu

Modular Neural Networks (MNNs) demonstrate various advantages over monolithic models. Existing MNNs are generally $\textit{explicit}$: their modular architectures are pre-defined, with individual modules expected to implement distinct functions. Recent works reveal that there exists $\textit{implicit}$ modularity in standard pre-trained transformers, namely $\textit{Emergent Modularity}$. They indicate that such modular structures spontaneously exhibit during the early pre-training phase. Despite the benefits of modularity, most Language Models (LMs) are still treated as monolithic models in the pre-train and fine-tune paradigm, with their emergent modularity locked and underutilized. In this work, focusing on unlocking the emergent modularity in LMs, we showcase that standard LMs could be fine-tuned as their Mixture-of-Expert (MoEs) counterparts without introducing any extra parameters. Such MoEs are derived from emergent modularity and are referred to as Emergent MoEs (EMoE). Our experiments demonstrate that fine-tuning EMoE effectively improves downstream in-domain and out-of-domain generalization compared with vanilla fine-tuning. Our analysis and ablation studies further illustrate that it is robust to various configurations and can scale up to Large Language Models (i.e., Llama2-7B and Llama-30B). Code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2403.14608] Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning for Large Models: A Comprehensive Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14608>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:11:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Zeyu Han [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 17:55:50 UTC (3,747 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:11:36 UTC (3,290 KB)
    Zeyu Han, Chao Gao, Jinyang Liu, Jeff Zhang, Sai Qian Zhang

Large models represent a groundbreaking advancement in multiple application fields, enabling remarkable achievements across various tasks. However, their unprecedented scale comes with significant computational costs. These models, often consisting of billions of parameters, require vast amounts of computational resources for execution. Especially, the expansive scale and computational demands pose considerable challenges when customizing them for particular downstream tasks, particularly over the hardware platforms constrained by computational capabilities. Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) provides a practical solution by efficiently adapt the large models over the various downstream tasks. In particular, PEFT refers to the process of adjusting the parameters of a pre-trained large models to adapt it to a specific task while minimizing the number of additional parameters introduced or computational resources required. This approach is particularly important when dealing with large language models with high parameter counts, as fine-tuning these models from scratch can be computationally expensive and resource-intensive, posing considerable challenges in the supporting system platform design. In this survey, we present comprehensive studies of various PEFT algorithms, examining their performance and computational overhead. Moreover, we provide an overview of applications developed using different PEFT algorithms and discuss common techniques employed to mitigate computation costs for PEFT. In addition to the algorithmic perspective, we overview various real-world system designs to investigate the implementation costs associated with different PEFT algorithms. This survey serves as an indispensable resource for researchers aiming to understand both the PEFT algorithm and its system implementation, offering detailed insights into recent advancements and practical applications.

------------

`[2305.01157] Complex Logical Reasoning over Knowledge Graphs using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.01157>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:56:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Nurendra Choudhary [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 2 May 2023 02:21:49 UTC (2,299 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 24 May 2023 21:08:09 UTC (3,376 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 19:56:37 UTC (3,402 KB)
    Nurendra Choudhary and Chandan K. Reddy

Reasoning over knowledge graphs (KGs) is a challenging task that requires a deep understanding of the complex relationships between entities and the underlying logic of their relations. Current approaches rely on learning geometries to embed entities in vector space for logical query operations, but they suffer from subpar performance on complex queries and dataset-specific representations. In this paper, we propose a novel decoupled approach, Language-guided Abstract Reasoning over Knowledge graphs (LARK), that formulates complex KG reasoning as a combination of contextual KG search and logical query reasoning, to leverage the strengths of graph extraction algorithms and large language models (LLM), respectively. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach outperforms state-of-the-art KG reasoning methods on standard benchmark datasets across several logical query constructs, with significant performance gain for queries of higher complexity. Furthermore, we show that the performance of our approach improves proportionally to the increase in size of the underlying LLM, enabling the integration of the latest advancements in LLMs for logical reasoning over KGs. Our work presents a new direction for addressing the challenges of complex KG reasoning and paves the way for future research in this area.

------------

`[2306.13549] A Survey on Multimodal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13549>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:51:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Shukang Yin [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 23 Jun 2023 15:21:52 UTC (107 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 17:51:54 UTC (583 KB)
    Shukang Yin, Chaoyou Fu, Sirui Zhao, Ke Li, Xing Sun, Tong Xu, Enhong Chen

Recently, Multimodal Large Language Model (MLLM) represented by GPT-4V has been a new rising research hotspot, which uses powerful Large Language Models (LLMs) as a brain to perform multimodal tasks. The surprising emergent capabilities of MLLM, such as writing stories based on images and OCR-free math reasoning, are rare in traditional multimodal methods, suggesting a potential path to artificial general intelligence. To this end, both academia and industry have endeavored to develop MLLMs that can compete with or even better than GPT-4V, pushing the limit of research at a surprising speed. In this paper, we aim to trace and summarize the recent progress of MLLMs. First of all, we present the basic formulation of MLLM and delineate its related concepts, including architecture, training strategy and data, as well as evaluation. Then, we introduce research topics about how MLLMs can be extended to support more granularity, modalities, languages, and scenarios. We continue with multimodal hallucination and extended techniques, including Multimodal ICL (M-ICL), Multimodal CoT (M-CoT), and LLM-Aided Visual Reasoning (LAVR). To conclude the paper, we discuss existing challenges and point out promising research directions. In light of the fact that the era of MLLM has only just begun, we will keep updating this survey and hope it can inspire more research. An associated GitHub link collecting the latest papers is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2309.04019] Evaluation of large language models for discovery of gene set function <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04019>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:02:23 GMT
    Submission history From: Mengzhou Hu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 7 Sep 2023 21:10:48 UTC (2,128 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:02:23 UTC (2,634 KB)
    Mengzhou Hu and Sahar Alkhairy, Ingoo Lee, Rudolf T. Pillich, Dylan Fong, Kevin Smith, Robin Bachelder, Trey Ideker, and Dexter Pratt

Gene set analysis is a mainstay of functional genomics, but it relies on curated databases of gene functions that are incomplete. Here we evaluate five Large Language Models (LLMs) for their ability to discover the common biological functions represented by a gene set, substantiated by supporting rationale, citations and a confidence assessment. Benchmarking against canonical gene sets from the Gene Ontology, GPT-4 confidently recovered the curated name or a more general concept (73% of cases), while benchmarking against random gene sets correctly yielded zero confidence. Gemini-Pro and Mixtral-Instruct showed ability in naming but were falsely confident for random sets, whereas Llama2-70b had poor performance overall. In gene sets derived from 'omics data, GPT-4 identified novel functions not reported by classical functional enrichment (32% of cases), which independent review indicated were largely verifiable and not hallucinations. The ability to rapidly synthesize common gene functions positions LLMs as valuable 'omics assistants.

------------

`[2309.16211] VDC: Versatile Data Cleanser based on Visual-Linguistic Inconsistency by Multimodal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16211>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:49:49 GMT
    Submission history From: Zihao Zhu [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Sep 2023 07:37:18 UTC (1,848 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:49:49 UTC (1,924 KB)
    Zihao Zhu, Mingda Zhang, Shaokui Wei, Bingzhe Wu, Baoyuan Wu

The role of data in building AI systems has recently been emphasized by the emerging concept of data-centric AI. Unfortunately, in the real-world, datasets may contain dirty samples, such as poisoned samples from backdoor attack, noisy labels in crowdsourcing, and even hybrids of them. The presence of such dirty samples makes the DNNs vunerable and unreliable.Hence, it is critical to detect dirty samples to improve the quality and realiability of dataset. Existing detectors only focus on detecting poisoned samples or noisy labels, that are often prone to weak generalization when dealing with dirty samples from other this http URL this paper, we find a commonality of various dirty samples is visual-linguistic inconsistency between images and associated labels. To capture the semantic inconsistency between modalities, we propose versatile data cleanser (VDC) leveraging the surpassing capabilities of multimodal large language models (MLLM) in cross-modal alignment and this http URL consists of three consecutive modules: the visual question generation module to generate insightful questions about the image; the visual question answering module to acquire the semantics of the visual content by answering the questions with MLLM; followed by the visual answer evaluation module to evaluate the inconsistency.Extensive experiments demonstrate its superior performance and generalization to various categories and types of dirty samples. The code is available at \url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2311.17076] Compositional Chain-of-Thought Prompting for Large Multimodal Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17076>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:17:09 GMT
    Submission history From: Chancharik Mitra [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 27 Nov 2023 22:23:27 UTC (2,910 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 28 Mar 2024 23:02:27 UTC (6,252 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:17:09 UTC (6,252 KB)
    Chancharik Mitra, Brandon Huang, Trevor Darrell, Roei Herzig

The combination of strong visual backbones and Large Language Model (LLM) reasoning has led to Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) becoming the current standard for a wide range of vision and language (VL) tasks. However, recent research has shown that even the most advanced LMMs still struggle to capture aspects of compositional visual reasoning, such as attributes and relationships between objects. One solution is to utilize scene graphs (SGs)--a formalization of objects and their relations and attributes that has been extensively used as a bridge between the visual and textual domains. Yet, scene graph data requires scene graph annotations, which are expensive to collect and thus not easily scalable. Moreover, finetuning an LMM based on SG data can lead to catastrophic forgetting of the pretraining objective. To overcome this, inspired by chain-of-thought methods, we propose Compositional Chain-of-Thought (CCoT), a novel zero-shot Chain-of-Thought prompting method that utilizes SG representations in order to extract compositional knowledge from an LMM. Specifically, we first generate an SG using the LMM, and then use that SG in the prompt to produce a response. Through extensive experiments, we find that the proposed CCoT approach not only improves LMM performance on several vision and language VL compositional benchmarks but also improves the performance of several popular LMMs on general multimodal benchmarks, without the need for fine-tuning or annotated ground-truth SGs. Code: this https URL

------------

`[2312.02010] Towards Learning a Generalist Model for Embodied Navigation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02010>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:21:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Duo Zheng [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 4 Dec 2023 16:32:51 UTC (3,198 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 6 Dec 2023 08:13:28 UTC (3,198 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 07:21:52 UTC (3,203 KB)
    Duo Zheng, Shijia Huang, Lin Zhao, Yiwu Zhong, Liwei Wang

Building a generalist agent that can interact with the world is the intriguing target of AI systems, thus spurring the research for embodied navigation, where an agent is required to navigate according to instructions or respond to queries. Despite the major progress attained, previous works primarily focus on task-specific agents and lack generalizability to unseen scenarios. Recently, LLMs have presented remarkable capabilities across various fields, and provided a promising opportunity for embodied navigation. Drawing on this, we propose the first generalist model for embodied navigation, NaviLLM. It adapts LLMs to embodied navigation by introducing schema-based instruction. The schema-based instruction flexibly casts various tasks into generation problems, thereby unifying a wide range of tasks. This approach allows us to integrate diverse data sources from various datasets into the training, equipping NaviLLM with a wide range of capabilities required by embodied navigation. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the performance and generalizability of our model. The experimental results demonstrate that our unified model achieves state-of-the-art performance on CVDN, SOON, and ScanQA. Specifically, it surpasses the previous stats-of-the-art method by a significant margin of 29% in goal progress on CVDN. Moreover, our model also demonstrates strong generalizability and presents impressive results on unseen tasks, e.g., embodied question answering and 3D captioning.

------------

`[2312.06742] Honeybee: Locality-enhanced Projector for Multimodal LLM <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06742>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:00:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Jonghwan Mun [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 11 Dec 2023 18:59:06 UTC (3,792 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 03:00:06 UTC (3,793 KB)
    Junbum Cha, Wooyoung Kang, Jonghwan Mun, Byungseok Roh

In Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), a visual projector plays a crucial role in bridging pre-trained vision encoders with LLMs, enabling profound visual understanding while harnessing the LLMs' robust capabilities. Despite the importance of the visual projector, it has been relatively less explored. In this study, we first identify two essential projector properties: (i) flexibility in managing the number of visual tokens, crucial for MLLMs' overall efficiency, and (ii) preservation of local context from visual features, vital for spatial understanding. Based on these findings, we propose a novel projector design that is both flexible and locality-enhanced, effectively satisfying the two desirable properties. Additionally, we present comprehensive strategies to effectively utilize multiple and multifaceted instruction datasets. Through extensive experiments, we examine the impact of individual design choices. Finally, our proposed MLLM, Honeybee, remarkably outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods across various benchmarks, including MME, MMBench, SEED-Bench, and LLaVA-Bench, achieving significantly higher efficiency. Code and models are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2401.01482] Incorporating Geo-Diverse Knowledge into Prompting for Increased Geographical Robustness in Object Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01482>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 18:52:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Kyle Buettner [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 3 Jan 2024 01:11:16 UTC (29,328 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 29 Mar 2024 18:52:59 UTC (47,908 KB)
    Kyle Buettner, Sina Malakouti, Xiang Lorraine Li, Adriana Kovashka

Existing object recognition models have been shown to lack robustness in diverse geographical scenarios due to domain shifts in design and context. Class representations need to be adapted to more accurately reflect an object concept under these shifts. In the absence of training data from target geographies, we hypothesize that geographically diverse descriptive knowledge of categories can enhance robustness. For this purpose, we explore the feasibility of probing a large language model for geography-based object knowledge, and we examine the effects of integrating knowledge into zero-shot and learnable soft prompting with CLIP. Within this exploration, we propose geography knowledge regularization to ensure that soft prompts trained on a source set of geographies generalize to an unseen target set. Accuracy gains over prompting baselines on DollarStreet while training only on Europe data are up to +2.8/1.2/1.6 on target data from Africa/Asia/Americas, and +4.6 overall on the hardest classes. Competitive performance is shown vs. few-shot target training, and analysis is provided to direct future study of geographical robustness.

------------

`[2401.12554] Can Large Language Models Write Parallel Code? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12554>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:34:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Daniel Nichols [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 Jan 2024 08:25:12 UTC (628 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:34:36 UTC (792 KB)
    Daniel Nichols, Joshua H. Davis, Zhaojun Xie, Arjun Rajaram, Abhinav Bhatele

Large language models are increasingly becoming a popular tool for software development. Their ability to model and generate source code has been demonstrated in a variety of contexts, including code completion, summarization, translation, and lookup. However, they often struggle to generate code for complex programs. In this paper, we study the capabilities of state-of-the-art language models to generate parallel code. In order to evaluate language models, we create a benchmark, ParEval, consisting of prompts that represent 420 different coding tasks. We use ParEval to evaluate the effectiveness of several state-of-the-art open- and closed-source language models on these tasks. We introduce novel metrics for evaluating the performance of generated code, and use them to explore how well each LLM performs for 12 different computational problem types and six different parallel programming models.

------------

`[2402.07148] X-LoRA: Mixture of Low-Rank Adapter Experts, a Flexible Framework for Large Language Models with Applications in Protein Mechanics and Molecular Design <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07148>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 20:18:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Markus Buehler [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 11 Feb 2024 10:23:34 UTC (40,914 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 20:18:54 UTC (43,034 KB)
    Eric L. Buehler, Markus J. Buehler

We report a mixture of expert strategy to create fine-tuned large language models using a deep layer-wise token-level approach based on low-rank adaptation (LoRA). Starting with a set of pre-trained LoRA adapters, our gating strategy uses the hidden states to dynamically mix adapted layers, allowing the resulting X-LoRA model to draw upon different capabilities and create never-before-used deep layer-wise combinations to solve tasks. The design is inspired by the biological principles of universality and diversity, where neural network building blocks are reused in different hierarchical manifestations. Hence, the X-LoRA model can be easily implemented for any existing large language model (LLM) without a need for modifications of the underlying structure. We develop a tailored X-LoRA model that offers scientific capabilities including forward/inverse analysis tasks and enhanced reasoning capability, focused on biomaterial analysis, protein mechanics and design. The impact of this work include access to readily expandable and adaptable models with strong domain knowledge and the capability to integrate across areas of knowledge. Featuring experts in biology, mathematics, reasoning, bio-inspired materials, mechanics and materials, chemistry, protein biophysics, mechanics and quantum-mechanics based molecular properties, we conduct a series of physics-focused case studies. We examine knowledge recall, protein mechanics forward/inverse tasks, protein design, adversarial agentic modeling including ontological knowledge graph construction, as well as molecular design. The model is capable not only of making quantitative predictions of nanomechanical properties of proteins or quantum mechanical molecular properties, but also reasons over the results and correctly predicts likely mechanisms that explain distinct molecular behaviors.

------------

`[2403.11487] Can LLMs Generate Human-Like Wayfinding Instructions? Towards Platform-Agnostic Embodied Instruction Synthesis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11487>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 22:21:18 GMT
    Submission history From: Vishnu Sashank Dorbala [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 18 Mar 2024 05:38:07 UTC (9,664 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 22:21:18 UTC (9,669 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 2 Apr 2024 04:27:55 UTC (9,669 KB)
    Vishnu Sashank Dorbala, Sanjoy Chowdhury, Dinesh Manocha

We present a novel approach to automatically synthesize "wayfinding instructions" for an embodied robot agent. In contrast to prior approaches that are heavily reliant on human-annotated datasets designed exclusively for specific simulation platforms, our algorithm uses in-context learning to condition an LLM to generate instructions using just a few references. Using an LLM-based Visual Question Answering strategy, we gather detailed information about the environment which is used by the LLM for instruction synthesis. We implement our approach on multiple simulation platforms including Matterport3D, AI Habitat and ThreeDWorld, thereby demonstrating its platform-agnostic nature. We subjectively evaluate our approach via a user study and observe that 83.3% of users find the synthesized instructions accurately capture the details of the environment and show characteristics similar to those of human-generated instructions. Further, we conduct zero-shot navigation with multiple approaches on the REVERIE dataset using the generated instructions, and observe very close correlation with the baseline on standard success metrics (< 1% change in SR), quantifying the viability of generated instructions in replacing human-annotated data. We finally discuss the applicability of our approach in enabling a generalizable evaluation of embodied navigation policies. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first LLM-driven approach capable of generating "human-like" instructions in a platform-agnostic manner, without training.

------------

`[2403.13362] Incentivizing News Consumption on Social Media Platforms Using Large Language Models and Realistic Bot Accounts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13362>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:10:48 GMT
    Submission history From: Hadi Askari [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 20 Mar 2024 07:44:06 UTC (4,259 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 21 Mar 2024 21:56:49 UTC (4,259 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 03:10:48 UTC (4,259 KB)
    Hadi Askari, Anshuman Chhabra, Bernhard Clemm von Hohenberg, Michael Heseltine, Magdalena Wojcieszak

Polarization, declining trust, and wavering support for democratic norms are pressing threats to U.S. democracy. Exposure to verified and quality news may lower individual susceptibility to these threats and make citizens more resilient to misinformation, populism, and hyperpartisan rhetoric. This project examines how to enhance users' exposure to and engagement with verified and ideologically balanced news in an ecologically valid setting. We rely on a large-scale two-week long field experiment (from 1/19/2023 to 2/3/2023) on 28,457 Twitter users. We created 28 bots utilizing GPT-2 that replied to users tweeting about sports, entertainment, or lifestyle with a contextual reply containing two hardcoded elements: a URL to the topic-relevant section of quality news organization and an encouragement to follow its Twitter account. To further test differential effects by gender of the bots, treated users were randomly assigned to receive responses by bots presented as female or male. We examine whether our over-time intervention enhances the following of news media organization, the sharing and the liking of news content and the tweeting about politics and the liking of political content. We find that the treated users followed more news accounts and the users in the female bot treatment were more likely to like news content than the control. Most of these results, however, were small in magnitude and confined to the already politically interested Twitter users, as indicated by their pre-treatment tweeting about politics. These findings have implications for social media and news organizations, and also offer direction for future work on how Large Language Models and other computational interventions can effectively enhance individual on-platform engagement with quality news and public affairs.

------------

`[2403.14691] Large Language Models and User Trust: Consequence of Self-Referential Learning Loop and the Deskilling of Healthcare Professionals <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14691>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:03:45 GMT
    Submission history From: Avishek Choudhury [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 15 Mar 2024 04:04:45 UTC (471 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 05:03:45 UTC (440 KB)
    Avishek Choudhury, Zaria Chaudhry

This paper explores the evolving relationship between clinician trust in LLMs, the transformation of data sources from predominantly human-generated to AI-generated content, and the subsequent impact on the precision of LLMs and clinician competence. One of the primary concerns identified is the potential feedback loop that arises as LLMs become more reliant on their outputs for learning, which may lead to a degradation in output quality and a reduction in clinician skills due to decreased engagement with fundamental diagnostic processes. While theoretical at this stage, this feedback loop poses a significant challenge as the integration of LLMs in healthcare deepens, emphasizing the need for proactive dialogue and strategic measures to ensure the safe and effective use of LLM technology. A key takeaway from our investigation is the critical role of user expertise and the necessity for a discerning approach to trusting and validating LLM outputs. The paper highlights how expert users, particularly clinicians, can leverage LLMs to enhance productivity by offloading routine tasks while maintaining a critical oversight to identify and correct potential inaccuracies in AI-generated content. This balance of trust and skepticism is vital for ensuring that LLMs augment rather than undermine the quality of patient care. Moreover, we delve into the potential risks associated with LLMs' self-referential learning loops and the deskilling of healthcare professionals. The risk of LLMs operating within an echo chamber, where AI-generated content feeds into the learning algorithms, threatens the diversity and quality of the data pool, potentially entrenching biases and reducing the efficacy of LLMs.

------------

`[2403.15388] LLaVA-PruMerge: Adaptive Token Reduction for Efficient Large Multimodal Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15388>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 14:08:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Yuzhang Shang [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 17:59:52 UTC (518 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 25 Mar 2024 17:59:55 UTC (518 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 14:08:06 UTC (537 KB)
    Yuzhang Shang, Mu Cai, Bingxin Xu, Yong Jae Lee, Yan Yan

Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have shown significant reasoning capabilities by connecting a visual encoder and a large language model. LMMs typically use a fixed amount of visual tokens, such as the penultimate layer features in the CLIP visual encoder, as the prefix content. Recent LMMs incorporate more complex visual inputs, such as high-resolution images and videos, which increase the number of visual tokens significantly. However, due to the design of the Transformer architecture, computational costs associated with these models tend to increase quadratically with the number of input tokens. To tackle this problem, we explore a token reduction mechanism and find, similar to prior work, that many visual tokens are spatially redundant. Based on this, we propose PruMerge, a novel adaptive visual token reduction approach, which largely reduces the number of visual tokens while maintaining comparable model performance. We first select the unpruned visual tokens based on their similarity to class tokens and spatial tokens. We then cluster the pruned tokens based on key similarity and merge the clustered tokens with the unpruned tokens to supplement their information. Empirically, when applied to LLaVA-1.5, our approach can compress the visual tokens by 18 times on average, and achieve comparable performance across diverse visual question-answering and reasoning tasks. Code and checkpoints are at this https URL.

------------

`[2309.04372] MoEController: Instruction-based Arbitrary Image Manipulation with Mixture-of-Expert Controllers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04372>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 05:05:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Sijia Li [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 8 Sep 2023 15:06:05 UTC (5,945 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 05:05:52 UTC (5,516 KB)
    Sijia Li, Chen Chen, Haonan Lu

Diffusion-model-based text-guided image generation has recently made astounding progress, producing fascinating results in open-domain image manipulation tasks. Few models, however, currently have complete zero-shot capabilities for both global and local image editing due to the complexity and diversity of image manipulation tasks. In this work, we propose a method with a mixture-of-expert (MOE) controllers to align the text-guided capacity of diffusion models with different kinds of human instructions, enabling our model to handle various open-domain image manipulation tasks with natural language instructions. First, we use large language models (ChatGPT) and conditional image synthesis models (ControlNet) to generate a large number of global image transfer dataset in addition to the instruction-based local image editing dataset. Then, using an MOE technique and task-specific adaptation training on a large-scale dataset, our conditional diffusion model can edit images globally and locally. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach performs surprisingly well on various image manipulation tasks when dealing with open-domain images and arbitrary human instructions. Please refer to our project page: [this https URL]

------------

`[2310.07676] Composite Backdoor Attacks Against Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07676>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:09:34 GMT
    Submission history From: Hai Huang [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 11 Oct 2023 17:21:03 UTC (2,078 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 30 Mar 2024 16:09:34 UTC (2,227 KB)
    Hai Huang, Zhengyu Zhao, Michael Backes, Yun Shen, Yang Zhang

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated superior performance compared to previous methods on various tasks, and often serve as the foundation models for many researches and services. However, the untrustworthy third-party LLMs may covertly introduce vulnerabilities for downstream tasks. In this paper, we explore the vulnerability of LLMs through the lens of backdoor attacks. Different from existing backdoor attacks against LLMs, ours scatters multiple trigger keys in different prompt components. Such a Composite Backdoor Attack (CBA) is shown to be stealthier than implanting the same multiple trigger keys in only a single component. CBA ensures that the backdoor is activated only when all trigger keys appear. Our experiments demonstrate that CBA is effective in both natural language processing (NLP) and multimodal tasks. For instance, with $3\%$ poisoning samples against the LLaMA-7B model on the Emotion dataset, our attack achieves a $100\%$ Attack Success Rate (ASR) with a False Triggered Rate (FTR) below $2.06\%$ and negligible model accuracy degradation. Our work highlights the necessity of increased security research on the trustworthiness of foundation LLMs.

------------

`[2311.09618] Simulating Opinion Dynamics with Networks of LLM-based Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09618>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 01:12:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Yun-Shiuan Chuang [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 16 Nov 2023 07:01:48 UTC (14,652 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 16:25:48 UTC (17,724 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 12 Mar 2024 04:14:18 UTC (15,305 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 01:12:35 UTC (15,629 KB)
    Yun-Shiuan Chuang, Agam Goyal, Nikunj Harlalka, Siddharth Suresh, Robert Hawkins, Sijia Yang, Dhavan Shah, Junjie Hu, Timothy T. Rogers

Accurately simulating human opinion dynamics is crucial for understanding a variety of societal phenomena, including polarization and the spread of misinformation. However, the agent-based models (ABMs) commonly used for such simulations often over-simplify human behavior. We propose a new approach to simulating opinion dynamics based on populations of Large Language Models (LLMs). Our findings reveal a strong inherent bias in LLM agents towards producing accurate information, leading simulated agents to consensus in line with scientific reality. This bias limits their utility for understanding resistance to consensus views on issues like climate change. After inducing confirmation bias through prompt engineering, however, we observed opinion fragmentation in line with existing agent-based modeling and opinion dynamics research. These insights highlight the promise and limitations of LLM agents in this domain and suggest a path forward: refining LLMs with real-world discourse to better simulate the evolution of human beliefs.

------------

`[2402.09989] LLMs as Bridges: Reformulating Grounded Multimodal Named Entity Recognition <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09989>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 31 Mar 2024 07:47:59 GMT
    Submission history From: Jinyuan Li [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 15 Feb 2024 14:54:33 UTC (9,777 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 17 Feb 2024 19:41:57 UTC (9,777 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 31 Mar 2024 07:47:59 UTC (9,815 KB)
    Jinyuan Li, Han Li, Di Sun, Jiahao Wang, Wenkun Zhang, Zan Wang, Gang Pan

Grounded Multimodal Named Entity Recognition (GMNER) is a nascent multimodal task that aims to identify named entities, entity types and their corresponding visual regions. GMNER task exhibits two challenging properties: 1) The weak correlation between image-text pairs in social media results in a significant portion of named entities being ungroundable. 2) There exists a distinction between coarse-grained referring expressions commonly used in similar tasks (e.g., phrase localization, referring expression comprehension) and fine-grained named entities. In this paper, we propose RiVEG, a unified framework that reformulates GMNER into a joint MNER-VE-VG task by leveraging large language models (LLMs) as a connecting bridge. This reformulation brings two benefits: 1) It maintains the optimal MNER performance and eliminates the need for employing object detection methods to pre-extract regional features, thereby naturally addressing two major limitations of existing GMNER methods. 2) The introduction of entity expansion expression and Visual Entailment (VE) Module unifies Visual Grounding (VG) and Entity Grounding (EG). It enables RiVEG to effortlessly inherit the Visual Entailment and Visual Grounding capabilities of any current or prospective multimodal pretraining models. Extensive experiments demonstrate that RiVEG outperforms state-of-the-art methods on the existing GMNER dataset and achieves absolute leads of 10.65%, 6.21%, and 8.83% in all three subtasks.

------------

`[2403.15638] Differentially Private Next-Token Prediction of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15638>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:02:32 GMT
    Submission history From: James Flemings [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 22 Mar 2024 22:27:44 UTC (740 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 15:02:32 UTC (866 KB)
    James Flemings, Meisam Razaviyayn, Murali Annavaram

Ensuring the privacy of Large Language Models (LLMs) is becoming increasingly important. The most widely adopted technique to accomplish this is DP-SGD, which trains a model to guarantee Differential Privacy (DP). However, DP-SGD overestimates an adversary's capabilities in having white box access to the model and, as a result, causes longer training times and larger memory usage than SGD. On the other hand, commercial LLM deployments are predominantly cloud-based; hence, adversarial access to LLMs is black-box. Motivated by these observations, we present Private Mixing of Ensemble Distributions (PMixED): a private prediction protocol for next-token prediction that utilizes the inherent stochasticity of next-token sampling and a public model to achieve Differential Privacy. We formalize this by introducing RD-mollifers which project each of the model's output distribution from an ensemble of fine-tuned LLMs onto a set around a public LLM's output distribution, then average the projected distributions and sample from it. Unlike DP-SGD which needs to consider the model architecture during training, PMixED is model agnostic, which makes PMixED a very appealing solution for current deployments. Our results show that PMixED achieves a stronger privacy guarantee than sample-level privacy and outperforms DP-SGD for privacy $\epsilon = 8$ on large-scale datasets. Thus, PMixED offers a practical alternative to DP training methods for achieving strong generative utility without compromising privacy.

------------

`[2302.13087] Gauss-Newton Temporal Difference Learning with Nonlinear Function Approximation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.13087>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:57:46 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhifa Ke [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 25 Feb 2023 14:14:01 UTC (2,204 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 1 Apr 2024 02:57:46 UTC (935 KB)
    Zhifa Ke, Junyu Zhang, Zaiwen Wen

In this paper, a Gauss-Newton Temporal Difference (GNTD) learning method is proposed to solve the Q-learning problem with nonlinear function approximation. In each iteration, our method takes one Gauss-Newton (GN) step to optimize a variant of Mean-Squared Bellman Error (MSBE), where target networks are adopted to avoid double sampling. Inexact GN steps are analyzed so that one can safely and efficiently compute the GN updates by cheap matrix iterations. Under mild conditions, non-asymptotic finite-sample convergence to the globally optimal Q function is derived for various nonlinear function approximations. In particular, for neural network parameterization with relu activation, GNTD achieves an improved sample complexity of $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(\varepsilon^{-1})$, as opposed to the $\mathcal{\mathcal{O}}(\varepsilon^{-2})$ sample complexity of the existing neural TD methods. An $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(\varepsilon^{-1.5})$ sample complexity of GNTD is also established for general smooth function approximations. We validate our method via extensive experiments in several RL benchmarks, where GNTD exhibits both higher rewards and faster convergence than TD-type methods.
