240401
========

`[2403.19790] Bespoke Large Language Models for Digital Triage Assistance in Mental Health Care <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19790>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 19:17:07 GMT
    Niall Taylor, Andrey Kormilitzin, Isabelle Lorge, Alejo Nevado-Holgado, Dan W Joyce

Contemporary large language models (LLMs) may have utility for processing unstructured, narrative free-text clinical data contained in electronic health records (EHRs) -- a particularly important use-case for mental health where a majority of routinely-collected patient data lacks structured, machine-readable content.
A significant problem for the the United Kingdom's National Health Service (NHS) are the long waiting lists for specialist mental healthcare. According to NHS data, in each month of 2023, there were between 370,000 and 470,000 individual new referrals into secondary mental healthcare services. Referrals must be triaged by clinicians, using clinical information contained in the patient's EHR to arrive at a decision about the most appropriate mental healthcare team to assess and potentially treat these patients.
The ability to efficiently recommend a relevant team by ingesting potentially voluminous clinical notes could help services both reduce referral waiting times and with the right technology, improve the evidence available to justify triage decisions.
We present and evaluate three different approaches for LLM-based, end-to-end ingestion of variable-length clinical EHR data to assist clinicians when triaging referrals. Our model is able to deliver triage recommendations consistent with existing clinical practices and it's architecture was implemented on a single GPU, making it practical for implementation in resource-limited NHS environments where private implementations of LLM technology will be necessary to ensure confidential clinical data is appropriately controlled and governed.

------------

`[2403.19857] LLMSense: Harnessing LLMs for High-level Reasoning Over Spatiotemporal Sensor Traces <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19857>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 22:06:04 GMT
    Xiaomin Ouyang and Mani Srivastava

Most studies on machine learning in sensing systems focus on low-level perception tasks that process raw sensory data within a short time window.
However, many practical applications, such as human routine modeling and occupancy tracking, require high-level reasoning abilities to comprehend concepts and make inferences based on long-term sensor traces. Existing machine learning-based approaches for handling such complex tasks struggle to generalize due to the limited training samples and the high dimensionality of sensor traces, necessitating the integration of human knowledge for designing first-principle models or logic reasoning methods. We pose a fundamental question: Can we harness the reasoning capabilities and world knowledge of Large Language Models (LLMs) to recognize complex events from long-term spatiotemporal sensor traces? To answer this question, we design an effective prompting framework for LLMs on high-level reasoning tasks, which can handle traces from the raw sensor data as well as the low-level perception results. We also design two strategies to enhance performance with long sensor traces, including summarization before reasoning and selective inclusion of historical traces. Our framework can be implemented in an edge-cloud setup, running small LLMs on the edge for data summarization and performing high-level reasoning on the cloud for privacy preservation. The results show that LLMSense can achieve over 80\% accuracy on two high-level reasoning tasks such as dementia diagnosis with behavior traces and occupancy tracking with environmental sensor traces.
This paper provides a few insights and guidelines for leveraging LLM for high-level reasoning on sensor traces and highlights several directions for future work.

------------

`[2403.20097] ITCMA: A Generative Agent Based on a Computational Consciousness Structure <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20097>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 10:23:18 GMT
    Hanzhong Zhang, Jibin Yin, Haoyang Wang, Ziwei Xiang

Large Language Models (LLMs) still face challenges in tasks requiring understanding implicit instructions and applying common-sense knowledge. In such scenarios, LLMs may require multiple attempts to achieve human-level performance, potentially leading to inaccurate responses or inferences in practical environments, affecting their long-term consistency and behavior.
This paper introduces the Internal Time-Consciousness Machine (ITCM), a computational consciousness structure. We further propose the ITCM-based Agent (ITCMA), which supports behavior generation and reasoning in open-world settings. ITCMA enhances LLMs' ability to understand implicit instructions and apply common-sense knowledge by considering agents' interaction and reasoning with the environment. Evaluations in the Alfworld environment show that trained ITCMA outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) by 9% on the seen set. Even untrained ITCMA achieves a 96% task completion rate on the seen set, 5% higher than SOTA, indicating its superiority over traditional intelligent agents in utility and generalization. In real-world tasks with quadruped robots, the untrained ITCMA achieves an 85% task completion rate, which is close to its performance in the unseen set, demonstrating its comparable utility in real-world settings.

------------

`[2403.20127] The Impact of Prompts on Zero-Shot Detection of AI-Generated Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20127>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 11:33:34 GMT
    Kaito Taguchi, Yujie Gu, and Kouichi Sakurai

In recent years, there have been significant advancements in the development of Large Language Models (LLMs). While their practical applications are now widespread, their potential for misuse, such as generating fake news and committing plagiarism, has posed significant concerns. To address this issue, detectors have been developed to evaluate whether a given text is human-generated or AI-generated. Among others, zero-shot detectors stand out as effective approaches that do not require additional training data and are often likelihood-based. In chat-based applications, users commonly input prompts and utilize the AI-generated texts. However, zero-shot detectors typically analyze these texts in isolation, neglecting the impact of the original prompts. It is conceivable that this approach may lead to a discrepancy in likelihood assessments between the text generation phase and the detection phase. So far, there remains an unverified gap concerning how the presence or absence of prompts impacts detection accuracy for zero-shot detectors. In this paper, we introduce an evaluative framework to empirically analyze the impact of prompts on the detection accuracy of AI-generated text. We assess various zero-shot detectors using both white-box detection, which leverages the prompt, and black-box detection, which operates without prompt information. Our experiments reveal the significant influence of prompts on detection accuracy. Remarkably, compared with black-box detection without prompts, the white-box methods using prompts demonstrate an increase in AUC of at least $0.1$ across all zero-shot detectors tested. Code is available: \url{https://github.com/kaito25atugich/Detector}.

------------

`[2403.20137] Accurate Block Quantization in LLMs with Outliers <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20137>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 12:15:06 GMT
    Nikita Trukhanov and Ilya Soloveychik

The demand for inference on extremely large scale LLMs has seen enormous growth in the recent months. It made evident the colossal shortage of dedicated hardware capable of efficient and fast processing of the involved compute and memory movement. The problem is aggravated by the exploding raise in the lengths of the sequences being processed, since those require efficient on-chip storage of the KV-cache of size proportional to the sequence length. To make the required compute feasible and fit the involved data into available memory, numerous quantization techniques have been proposed that allow accurate quantization for both weights and activations. One of the main recent breakthroughs in this direction was introduction of the family of Block Floating Point (BFP) formats characterized by a block of mantissas with a shared scale factor. These enable memory- power-, and compute- efficient hardware support of the tensor operations and provide extremely good quantization accuracy. The main issues preventing widespread application of block formats is caused by the presence of outliers in weights and activations since those affect the accuracy of the other values in the same block. In this paper, we focus on the most critical problem of limited KV-cache storage. We propose a novel approach enabling usage of low precision BFP formats without compromising the resulting model accuracy. We exploit the common channel-wise patterns exhibited by the outliers to rearrange them in such a way, that their quantization quality is significantly improved. The methodology yields 2x savings in the memory footprint without significant degradation of the model's accuracy. Importantly, the rearrangement of channels happens at the compile time and thus has no impact on the inference latency.

------------

`[2403.20204] The Future of Combating Rumors? Retrieval, Discrimination, and Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20204>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 14:32:41 GMT
    Junhao Xu, Longdi Xian, Zening Liu, Mingliang Chen, Qiuyang Yin, Fenghua Song

Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC) technology development has facilitated the creation of rumors with misinformation, impacting societal, economic, and political ecosystems, challenging democracy. Current rumor detection efforts fall short by merely labeling potentially misinformation (classification task), inadequately addressing the issue, and it is unrealistic to have authoritative institutions debunk every piece of information on social media. Our proposed comprehensive debunking process not only detects rumors but also provides explanatory generated content to refute the authenticity of the information. The Expert-Citizen Collective Wisdom (ECCW) module we designed aensures high-precision assessment of the credibility of information and the retrieval module is responsible for retrieving relevant knowledge from a Real-time updated debunking database based on information keywords. By using prompt engineering techniques, we feed results and knowledge into a LLM (Large Language Model), achieving satisfactory discrimination and explanatory effects while eliminating the need for fine-tuning, saving computational costs, and contributing to debunking efforts.

------------

`[2403.20306] Towards Greener LLMs: Bringing Energy-Efficiency to the Forefront of LLM Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20306>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 17:22:48 GMT
    Jovan Stojkovic, Esha Choukse, Chaojie Zhang, Inigo Goiri, Josep Torrellas

With the ubiquitous use of modern large language models (LLMs) across industries, the inference serving for these models is ever expanding. Given the high compute and memory requirements of modern LLMs, more and more top-of-the-line GPUs are being deployed to serve these models. Energy availability has come to the forefront as the biggest challenge for data center expansion to serve these models. In this paper, we present the trade-offs brought up by making energy efficiency the primary goal of LLM serving under performance SLOs. We show that depending on the inputs, the model, and the service-level agreements, there are several knobs available to the LLM inference provider to use for being energy efficient. We characterize the impact of these knobs on the latency, throughput, as well as the energy. By exploring these trade-offs, we offer valuable insights into optimizing energy usage without compromising on performance, thereby paving the way for sustainable and cost-effective LLM deployment in data center environments.

------------

`[2403.19708] AttentionStore: Cost-effective Attention Reuse across Multi-turn Conversations in Large Language Model Serving <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19708>`__

::

    Sat, 23 Mar 2024 10:42:49 GMT
    Bin Gao, Zhuomin He, Puru Sharma, Qingxuan Kang, Djordje Jevdjic, Junbo Deng, Xingkun Yang, Zhou Yu, Pengfei Zuo

Interacting with humans through multi-turn conversations is a fundamental feature of large language models (LLMs). However, existing LLM serving engines for executing multi-turn conversations are inefficient due to the need to repeatedly compute the key-value (KV) caches of historical tokens, incurring high serving costs. To address the problem, this paper proposes AttentionStore, a new attention mechanism that enables the reuse of KV caches (i.e., attention reuse) across multi-turn conversations, significantly reducing the repetitive computation overheads. AttentionStore maintains a hierarchical KV caching system that leverages cost-effective memory/storage mediums to save KV caches for all requests. To reduce KV cache access overheads from slow mediums, AttentionStore employs layer-wise pre-loading and asynchronous saving schemes to overlap the KV cache access with the GPU computation. To ensure that the KV caches to be accessed are placed in the fastest hierarchy, AttentionStore employs scheduler-aware fetching and eviction schemes to consciously place the KV caches in different layers based on the hints from the inference job scheduler. To avoid the invalidation of the saved KV caches incurred by context window overflow, AttentionStore enables the saved KV caches to remain valid via decoupling the positional encoding and effectively truncating the KV caches.
Extensive experimental results demonstrate that AttentionStore significantly decreases the time to the first token (TTFT) by up to 88%, improves the prompt prefilling throughput by 8.2$\times$ for multi-turn conversations, and reduces the end-to-end inference cost by up to 56%. For long sequence inference, AttentionStore reduces the TTFT by up to 95% and improves the prompt prefilling throughput by 22$\times$.

------------

`[2403.19710] STRUM-LLM: Attributed and Structured Contrastive Summarization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19710>`__

::

    Mon, 25 Mar 2024 18:32:44 GMT
    Beliz Gunel, James B. Wendt, Jing Xie, Yichao Zhou, Nguyen Vo, Zachary Fisher, Sandeep Tata

Users often struggle with decision-making between two options (A vs B), as it usually requires time-consuming research across multiple web pages. We propose STRUM-LLM that addresses this challenge by generating attributed, structured, and helpful contrastive summaries that highlight key differences between the two options. STRUM-LLM identifies helpful contrast: the specific attributes along which the two options differ significantly and which are most likely to influence the user's decision. Our technique is domain-agnostic, and does not require any human-labeled data or fixed attribute list as supervision.
STRUM-LLM attributes all extractions back to the input sources along with textual evidence, and it does not have a limit on the length of input sources that it can process. STRUM-LLM Distilled has 100x more throughput than the models with comparable performance while being 10x smaller. In this paper, we provide extensive evaluations for our method and lay out future directions for our currently deployed system.

------------

`[2403.19723] HGT: Leveraging Heterogeneous Graph-enhanced Large Language Models for Few-shot Complex Table Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19723>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 03:20:54 GMT
    Rihui Jin, Yu Li, Guilin Qi, Nan Hu, Yuan-Fang Li, Jiaoyan Chen, Jianan Wang, Yongrui Chen, Dehai Min

Table understanding (TU) has achieved promising advancements, but it faces the challenges of the scarcity of manually labeled tables and the presence of complex table structures.To address these challenges, we propose HGT, a framework with a heterogeneous graph (HG)-enhanced large language model (LLM) to tackle few-shot TU tasks.It leverages the LLM by aligning the table semantics with the LLM's parametric knowledge through soft prompts and instruction turning and deals with complex tables by a multi-task pre-training scheme involving three novel multi-granularity self-supervised HG pre-training objectives.We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of HGT, showing that it outperforms the SOTA for few-shot complex TU on several benchmarks.

------------

`[2403.19725] MUGC: Machine Generated versus User Generated Content Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19725>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 07:33:53 GMT
    Yaqi Xie, Anjali Rawal, Yujing Cen, Dixuan Zhao, Sunil K Narang, Shanu Sushmita

As advanced modern systems like deep neural networks (DNNs) and generative AI continue to enhance their capabilities in producing convincing and realistic content, the need to distinguish between user-generated and machine generated content is becoming increasingly evident. In this research, we undertake a comparative evaluation of eight traditional machine-learning algorithms to distinguish between machine-generated and human-generated data across three diverse datasets: Poems, Abstracts, and Essays. Our results indicate that traditional methods demonstrate a high level of accuracy in identifying machine-generated data, reflecting the documented effectiveness of popular pre-trained models like RoBERT. We note that machine-generated texts tend to be shorter and exhibit less word variety compared to human-generated content.
While specific domain-related keywords commonly utilized by humans, albeit disregarded by current LLMs (Large Language Models), may contribute to this high detection accuracy, we show that deeper word representations like word2vec can capture subtle semantic variances. Furthermore, readability, bias, moral, and affect comparisons reveal a discernible contrast between machine-generated and human generated content. There are variations in expression styles and potentially underlying biases in the data sources (human and machine-generated). This study provides valuable insights into the advancing capacities and challenges associated with machine-generated content across various domains.

------------

`[2403.19726] A Benchmark Evaluation of Clinical Named Entity Recognition in French <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19726>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 07:59:58 GMT
    Nesrine Bannour (STL), Christophe Servan (STL), Aur\'elie N\'ev\'eol (STL), Xavier Tannier (LIMICS)

Background: Transformer-based language models have shown strong performance on many Natural LanguageProcessing (NLP) tasks. Masked Language Models (MLMs) attract sustained interest because they can be adaptedto different languages and sub-domains through training or fine-tuning on specific corpora while remaining lighterthan modern Large Language Models (LLMs). Recently, several MLMs have been released for the biomedicaldomain in French, and experiments suggest that they outperform standard French counterparts. However, nosystematic evaluation comparing all models on the same corpora is available.
Objective: This paper presentsan evaluation of masked language models for biomedical French on the task of clinical named entity recognition.Material and methods: We evaluate biomedical models CamemBERT-bio and DrBERT and compare them tostandard French models CamemBERT, FlauBERT and FrALBERT as well as multilingual mBERT using three publicallyavailable corpora for clinical named entity recognition in French. The evaluation set-up relies on gold-standardcorpora as released by the corpus developers. Results: Results suggest that CamemBERT-bio outperformsDrBERT consistently while FlauBERT offers competitive performance and FrAlBERT achieves the lowest carbonfootprint.
Conclusion: This is the first benchmark evaluation of biomedical masked language models for Frenchclinical entity recognition that compares model performance consistently on nested entity recognition using metricscovering performance and environmental impact.

------------

`[2403.19754] GOLD: Generalized Knowledge Distillation via Out-of-Distribution-Guided Language Data Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19754>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 18:08:22 GMT
    Mohsen Gholami, Mohammad Akbari, Cindy Hu, Vaden Masrani, Z. Jane Wang, and Yong Zhang

Knowledge distillation from LLMs is essential for the efficient deployment of language models. Prior works have proposed data generation using LLMs for preparing distilled models. We argue that generating data with LLMs is prone to sampling mainly from the center of original content distribution. This limitation hinders the distilled model from learning the true underlying data distribution and to forget the tails of the distributions (samples with lower probability). To this end, we propose GOLD, a task-agnostic data generation and knowledge distillation framework, which employs an iterative out-of-distribution-guided feedback mechanism for the LLM. As a result, the generated data improves the generalizability of distilled models. An energy-based OOD evaluation approach is also introduced to deal with noisy generated data. Our extensive experiments on 10 different classification and sequence-to-sequence tasks in NLP show that GOLD respectively outperforms prior arts and the LLM with an average improvement of 5% and 14%. We will also show that the proposed method is applicable to less explored and novel tasks. The code is available.

------------

`[2403.19802] Developing Healthcare Language Model Embedding Spaces <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19802>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 19:31:32 GMT
    Niall Taylor, Dan Schofield, Andrey Kormilitzin, Dan W Joyce, Alejo Nevado-Holgado

Pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) often struggle on out-of-domain datasets like healthcare focused text. We explore specialized pre-training to adapt smaller LLMs to different healthcare datasets. Three methods are assessed: traditional masked language modeling, Deep Contrastive Learning for Unsupervised Textual Representations (DeCLUTR), and a novel pre-training objective utilizing metadata categories from the healthcare settings. These schemes are evaluated on downstream document classification tasks for each dataset, with additional analysis of the resultant embedding spaces.
Contrastively trained models outperform other approaches on the classification tasks, delivering strong performance from limited labeled data and with fewer model parameter updates required. While metadata-based pre-training does not further improve classifications across the datasets, it yields interesting embedding cluster separability. All domain adapted LLMs outperform their publicly available general base LLM, validating the importance of domain-specialization. This research illustrates efficient approaches to instill healthcare competency in compact LLMs even under tight computational budgets, an essential capability for responsible and sustainable deployment in local healthcare settings. We provide pre-training guidelines for specialized healthcare LLMs, motivate continued inquiry into contrastive objectives, and demonstrates adaptation techniques to align small LLMs with privacy-sensitive medical tasks.

------------

`[2403.19836] Target Span Detection for Implicit Harmful Content <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19836>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 21:15:15 GMT
    Nazanin Jafari, James Allan

Identifying the targets of hate speech is a crucial step in grasping the nature of such speech and, ultimately, in improving the detection of offensive posts on online forums. Much harmful content on online platforms uses implicit language especially when targeting vulnerable and protected groups such as using stereotypical characteristics instead of explicit target names, making it harder to detect and mitigate the language. In this study, we focus on identifying implied targets of hate speech, essential for recognizing subtler hate speech and enhancing the detection of harmful content on digital platforms. We define a new task aimed at identifying the targets even when they are not explicitly stated. To address that task, we collect and annotate target spans in three prominent implicit hate speech datasets: SBIC, DynaHate, and IHC. We call the resulting merged collection Implicit-Target-Span. The collection is achieved using an innovative pooling method with matching scores based on human annotations and Large Language Models (LLMs). Our experiments indicate that Implicit-Target-Span provides a challenging test bed for target span detection methods.

------------

`[2403.19887] Jamba: A Hybrid Transformer-Mamba Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19887>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 23:55:06 GMT
    Opher Lieber, Barak Lenz, Hofit Bata, Gal Cohen, Jhonathan Osin, Itay Dalmedigos, Erez Safahi, Shaked Meirom, Yonatan Belinkov, Shai Shalev-Shwartz, Omri Abend, Raz Alon, Tomer Asida, Amir Bergman, Roman Glozman, Michael Gokhman, Avashalom Manevich, Nir Ratner, Noam Rozen, Erez Shwartz, Mor Zusman, Yoav Shoham

We present Jamba, a new base large language model based on a novel hybrid Transformer-Mamba mixture-of-experts (MoE) architecture. Specifically, Jamba interleaves blocks of Transformer and Mamba layers, enjoying the benefits of both model families. MoE is added in some of these layers to increase model capacity while keeping active parameter usage manageable. This flexible architecture allows resource- and objective-specific configurations. In the particular configuration we have implemented, we end up with a powerful model that fits in a single 80GB GPU. Built at large scale, Jamba provides high throughput and small memory footprint compared to vanilla Transformers, and at the same time state-of-the-art performance on standard language model benchmarks and long-context evaluations. Remarkably, the model presents strong results for up to 256K tokens context length. We study various architectural decisions, such as how to combine Transformer and Mamba layers, and how to mix experts, and show that some of them are crucial in large scale modeling. We also describe several interesting properties of these architectures which the training and evaluation of Jamba have revealed, and plan to release checkpoints from various ablation runs, to encourage further exploration of this novel architecture. We make the weights of our implementation of Jamba publicly available under a permissive license.

------------

`[2403.19889] Towards a Robust Retrieval-Based Summarization System <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19889>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 00:14:46 GMT
    Shengjie Liu, Jing Wu, Jingyuan Bao, Wenyi Wang, Naira Hovakimyan, Christopher G Healey

This paper describes an investigation of the robustness of large language models (LLMs) for retrieval augmented generation (RAG)-based summarization tasks. While LLMs provide summarization capabilities, their performance in complex, real-world scenarios remains under-explored. Our first contribution is LogicSumm, an innovative evaluation framework incorporating realistic scenarios to assess LLM robustness during RAG-based summarization. Based on limitations identified by LogiSumm, we then developed SummRAG, a comprehensive system to create training dialogues and fine-tune a model to enhance robustness within LogicSumm's scenarios. SummRAG is an example of our goal of defining structured methods to test the capabilities of an LLM, rather than addressing issues in a one-off fashion. Experimental results confirm the power of SummRAG, showcasing improved logical coherence and summarization quality. Data, corresponding model weights, and Python code are available online.

------------

`[2403.19913] MANGO: A Benchmark for Evaluating Mapping and Navigation Abilities of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19913>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 01:53:24 GMT
    Peng Ding and Jiading Fang and Peng Li and Kangrui Wang and Xiaochen Zhou and Mo Yu and Jing Li and Matthew R. Walter and Hongyuan Mei

Large language models such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 have recently achieved astonishing performance on a variety of natural language processing tasks. In this paper, we propose MANGO, a benchmark to evaluate their capabilities to perform text-based mapping and navigation. Our benchmark includes 53 mazes taken from a suite of textgames: each maze is paired with a walkthrough that visits every location but does not cover all possible paths. The task is question-answering: for each maze, a large language model reads the walkthrough and answers hundreds of mapping and navigation questions such as "How should you go to Attic from West of House?" and "Where are we if we go north and east from Cellar?". Although these questions are easy to humans, it turns out that even GPT-4, the best-to-date language model, performs poorly at answering them.
Further, our experiments suggest that a strong mapping and navigation ability would benefit large language models in performing relevant downstream tasks, such as playing textgames. Our MANGO benchmark will facilitate future research on methods that improve the mapping and navigation capabilities of language models. We host our leaderboard, data, code, and evaluation program at https://mango.ttic.edu and https://github.com/oaklight/mango/.

------------

`[2403.19928] DiJiang: Efficient Large Language Models through Compact Kernelization <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19928>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 02:32:15 GMT
    Hanting Chen, Zhicheng Liu, Xutao Wang, Yuchuan Tian, Yunhe Wang

In an effort to reduce the computational load of Transformers, research on linear attention has gained significant momentum. However, the improvement strategies for attention mechanisms typically necessitate extensive retraining, which is impractical for large language models with a vast array of parameters.
In this paper, we present DiJiang, a novel Frequency Domain Kernelization approach that enables the transformation of a pre-trained vanilla Transformer into a linear complexity model with little training costs. By employing a weighted Quasi-Monte Carlo method for sampling, the proposed approach theoretically offers superior approximation efficiency. To further reduce the training computational complexity, our kernelization is based on Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) operations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed method achieves comparable performance to the original Transformer, but with significantly reduced training costs and much faster inference speeds.
Our DiJiang-7B achieves comparable performance with LLaMA2-7B on various benchmark while requires only about 1/50 training cost. Code is available at https://github.com/YuchuanTian/DiJiang.

------------

`[2403.19930] Are LLMs Effective Backbones for Fine-tuning? An Experimental Investigation of Supervised LLMs on Chinese Short Text Matching <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19930>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 02:36:54 GMT
    Shulin Liu, Chengcheng Xu, Hao Liu, Tinghao Yu, Tao Yang

The recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs) has garnered significant attention in both academia and industry. Prior research on LLMs has primarily focused on enhancing or leveraging their generalization capabilities in zero- and few-shot settings. However, there has been limited investigation into effectively fine-tuning LLMs for a specific natural language understanding task in supervised settings. In this study, we conduct an experimental analysis by fine-tuning LLMs for the task of Chinese short text matching. We explore various factors that influence performance when fine-tuning LLMs, including task modeling methods, prompt formats, and output formats.

------------

`[2403.19962] Enhancing the General Agent Capabilities of Low-Parameter LLMs through Tuning and Multi-Branch Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19962>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 03:48:12 GMT
    Qinhao Zhou, Zihan Zhang, Xiang Xiang, Ke Wang, Yuchuan Wu, Yongbin Li

Open-source pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit strong language understanding and generation capabilities, making them highly successful in a variety of tasks. However, when used as agents for dealing with complex problems in the real world, their performance is far inferior to large commercial models such as ChatGPT and GPT-4. As intelligent agents, LLMs need to have the capabilities of task planning, long-term memory, and the ability to leverage external tools to achieve satisfactory performance. Various methods have been proposed to enhance the agent capabilities of LLMs. On the one hand, methods involve constructing agent-specific data and fine-tuning the models. On the other hand, some methods focus on designing prompts that effectively activate the reasoning abilities of the LLMs. We explore both strategies on the 7B and 13B models. We propose a comprehensive method for constructing agent-specific data using GPT-4. Through supervised fine-tuning with constructed data, we find that for these models with a relatively small number of parameters, supervised fine-tuning can significantly reduce hallucination outputs and formatting errors in agent tasks. Furthermore, techniques such as multi-path reasoning and task decomposition can effectively decrease problem complexity and enhance the performance of LLMs as agents. We evaluate our method on five agent tasks of AgentBench and achieve satisfactory results.

------------

`[2403.20005] Large Language Model based Situational Dialogues for Second Language Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20005>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 06:43:55 GMT
    Shuyao Xu, Long Qin, Tianyang Chen, Zhenzhou Zha, and Bingxue Qiu, Weizhi Wang

In second language learning, scenario-based conversation practice is important for language learners to achieve fluency in speaking, but students often lack sufficient opportunities to practice their conversational skills with qualified instructors or native speakers. To bridge this gap, we propose situational dialogue models for students to engage in conversational practice.
Our situational dialogue models are fine-tuned on large language models (LLMs), with the aim of combining the engaging nature of an open-ended conversation with the focused practice of scenario-based tasks. Leveraging the generalization capabilities of LLMs, we demonstrate that our situational dialogue models perform effectively not only on training topics but also on topics not encountered during training. This offers a promising solution to support a wide range of conversational topics without extensive manual work.
Additionally, research in the field of dialogue systems still lacks reliable automatic evaluation metrics, leading to human evaluation as the gold standard (Smith et al., 2022), which is typically expensive. To address the limitations of existing evaluation methods, we present a novel automatic evaluation method that employs fine-tuned LLMs to efficiently and effectively assess the performance of situational dialogue models.

------------

`[2403.20009] On Large Language Models' Hallucination with Regard to Known Facts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20009>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 06:48:30 GMT
    Che Jiang, Biqing Qi, Xiangyu Hong, Dayuan Fu, Yang Cheng, Fandong Meng, Mo Yu, Bowen Zhou, Jie Zhou

Large language models are successful in answering factoid questions but are also prone to hallucination.We investigate the phenomenon of LLMs possessing correct answer knowledge yet still hallucinating from the perspective of inference dynamics, an area not previously covered in studies on hallucinations.We are able to conduct this analysis via two key ideas.First, we identify the factual questions that query the same triplet knowledge but result in different answers. The difference between the model behaviors on the correct and incorrect outputs hence suggests the patterns when hallucinations happen.
Second, to measure the pattern, we utilize mappings from the residual streams to vocabulary space. We reveal the different dynamics of the output token probabilities along the depths of layers between the correct and hallucinated cases. In hallucinated cases, the output token's information rarely demonstrates abrupt increases and consistent superiority in the later stages of the model. Leveraging the dynamic curve as a feature, we build a classifier capable of accurately detecting hallucinatory predictions with an 88\% success rate. Our study shed light on understanding the reasons for LLMs' hallucinations on their known facts, and more importantly, on accurately predicting when they are hallucinating.

------------

`[2403.20041] Transformer-Lite: High-efficiency Deployment of Large Language Models on Mobile Phone GPUs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20041>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 08:26:53 GMT
    Luchang Li, Sheng Qian, Jie Lu, Lunxi Yuan, Rui Wang, Qin Xie

The Large Language Model (LLM) is widely employed for tasks such as intelligent assistants, text summarization, translation, and multi-modality on mobile phones. However, the current methods for on-device LLM deployment maintain slow inference speed, which causes poor user experience. To facilitate high-efficiency LLM deployment on device GPUs, we propose four optimization techniques: (a) a symbolic expression-based approach to support dynamic shape model inference; (b) operator optimizations and execution priority setting to enhance inference speed and reduce phone lagging; (c) an FP4 quantization method termed M0E4 to reduce dequantization overhead; (d) a sub-tensor-based technique to eliminate the need for copying KV cache after LLM inference.
Furthermore, we implement these methods in our mobile inference engine, Transformer-Lite, which is compatible with both Qualcomm and MTK processors. We evaluated Transformer-Lite's performance using LLMs with varied architectures and parameters ranging from 2B to 14B. Specifically, we achieved prefill and decoding speeds of 121 token/s and 14 token/s for ChatGLM2 6B, and 330 token/s and 30 token/s for smaller Gemma 2B, respectively. Compared with CPU-based FastLLM and GPU-based MLC-LLM, our engine attains over 10x speedup for the prefill speed and 2~3x speedup for the decoding speed.

------------

`[2403.20046] Can LLMs Learn from Previous Mistakes? Investigating LLMs' Errors to Boost for Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20046>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 08:30:34 GMT
    Yongqi Tong, Dawei Li, Sizhe Wang, Yujia Wang, Fei Teng, Jingbo Shang

Recent works have shown the benefits to LLMs from fine-tuning golden-standard Chain-of-Thought (CoT) rationales or using them as correct examples in few-shot prompting. While humans can indeed imitate correct examples, learning from our mistakes is another vital aspect of human cognition. Hence, a question naturally arises: \textit{can LLMs learn and benefit from their mistakes, especially for their reasoning? } This study investigates this problem from both the prompting and model-tuning perspectives. We begin by introducing \textsc{CoTErrorSet}, a new benchmark with 609,432 questions, each designed with both correct and error references, and demonstrating the types and reasons for making such mistakes. To explore the effectiveness of those mistakes, we design two methods: (1) \textbf{Self-rethinking} prompting guides LLMs to rethink whether they have made similar previous mistakes; and (2) \textbf{Mistake tuning} involves finetuning models in both correct and incorrect reasoning domains, rather than only tuning models to learn ground truth in traditional methodology. We conduct a series of experiments to prove LLMs can obtain benefits from mistakes in both directions. Our two methods offer potentially cost-effective strategies by leveraging errors to enhance reasoning capabilities, which costs significantly less than creating meticulously hand-crafted golden references. We ultimately make a thorough analysis of the reasons behind LLMs' errors, which provides directions that future research needs to overcome. \textsc{CoTErrorSet} will be published soon on \texttt{Anonymity Link}.

------------

`[2403.20056] Cross-Lingual Transfer Robustness to Lower-Resource Languages on Adversarial Datasets <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20056>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 08:47:15 GMT
    Shadi Manafi and Nikhil Krishnaswamy

Multilingual Language Models (MLLMs) exhibit robust cross-lingual transfer capabilities, or the ability to leverage information acquired in a source language and apply it to a target language. These capabilities find practical applications in well-established Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks such as Named Entity Recognition (NER). This study aims to investigate the effectiveness of a source language when applied to a target language, particularly in the context of perturbing the input test set. We evaluate on 13 pairs of languages, each including one high-resource language (HRL) and one low-resource language (LRL) with a geographic, genetic, or borrowing relationship. We evaluate two well-known MLLMs--MBERT and XLM-R--on these pairs, in native LRL and cross-lingual transfer settings, in two tasks, under a set of different perturbations. Our findings indicate that NER cross-lingual transfer depends largely on the overlap of entity chunks. If a source and target language have more entities in common, the transfer ability is stronger.
Models using cross-lingual transfer also appear to be somewhat more robust to certain perturbations of the input, perhaps indicating an ability to leverage stronger representations derived from the HRL. Our research provides valuable insights into cross-lingual transfer and its implications for NLP applications, and underscores the need to consider linguistic nuances and potential limitations when employing MLLMs across distinct languages.

------------

`[2403.20134] User Modeling Challenges in Interactive AI Assistant Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20134>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 11:54:13 GMT
    Megan Su and Yuwei Bao

Interactive Artificial Intelligent(AI) assistant systems are designed to offer timely guidance to help human users to complete a variety tasks. One of the remaining challenges is to understand user's mental states during the task for more personalized guidance. In this work, we analyze users' mental states during task executions and investigate the capabilities and challenges for large language models to interpret user profiles for more personalized user guidance.

------------

`[2403.20145] Fine-tuning Large Language Models for Automated Diagnostic Screening Summaries <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20145>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 12:25:37 GMT
    Manjeet Yadav, Nilesh Kumar Sahu, Mudita Chaturvedi, Snehil Gupta, Haroon R Lone

Improving mental health support in developing countries is a pressing need.
One potential solution is the development of scalable, automated systems to conduct diagnostic screenings, which could help alleviate the burden on mental health professionals. In this work, we evaluate several state-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs), with and without fine-tuning, on our custom dataset for generating concise summaries from mental state examinations. We rigorously evaluate four different models for summary generation using established ROUGE metrics and input from human evaluators. The results highlight that our top-performing fine-tuned model outperforms existing models, achieving ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-L values of 0.810 and 0.764, respectively. Furthermore, we assessed the fine-tuned model's generalizability on a publicly available D4 dataset, and the outcomes were promising, indicating its potential applicability beyond our custom dataset.

------------

`[2403.20147] IndiBias: A Benchmark Dataset to Measure Social Biases in Language Models for Indian Context <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20147>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 12:32:06 GMT
    Nihar Ranjan Sahoo, Pranamya Prashant Kulkarni, Narjis Asad, Arif Ahmad, Tanu Goyal, Aparna Garimella, Pushpak Bhattacharyya

The pervasive influence of social biases in language data has sparked the need for benchmark datasets that capture and evaluate these biases in Large Language Models (LLMs). Existing efforts predominantly focus on English language and the Western context, leaving a void for a reliable dataset that encapsulates India's unique socio-cultural nuances. To bridge this gap, we introduce IndiBias, a comprehensive benchmarking dataset designed specifically for evaluating social biases in the Indian context. We filter and translate the existing CrowS-Pairs dataset to create a benchmark dataset suited to the Indian context in Hindi language. Additionally, we leverage LLMs including ChatGPT and InstructGPT to augment our dataset with diverse societal biases and stereotypes prevalent in India. The included bias dimensions encompass gender, religion, caste, age, region, physical appearance, and occupation. We also build a resource to address intersectional biases along three intersectional dimensions. Our dataset contains 800 filtered sentences from the CrowS-Pairs dataset and tuples for bias measurement across different demographics. It is made available in English and Hindi languages, providing a size comparable to existing benchmark datasets. Furthermore, using IndiBias we compare ten different language models on multiple bias measurement metrics. We observed that the language models exhibit more bias across a majority of the intersectional groups.

------------

`[2403.20158] ChatGPT v.s. Media Bias: A Comparative Study of GPT-3.5 and Fine-tuned Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20158>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 13:12:09 GMT
    Zehao Wen and Rabih Younes

In our rapidly evolving digital sphere, the ability to discern media bias becomes crucial as it can shape public sentiment and influence pivotal decisions. The advent of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, noted for their broad utility in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, invites exploration of their efficacy in media bias detection. Can ChatGPT detect media bias? This study seeks to answer this question by leveraging the Media Bias Identification Benchmark (MBIB) to assess ChatGPT's competency in distinguishing six categories of media bias, juxtaposed against fine-tuned models such as BART, ConvBERT, and GPT-2. The findings present a dichotomy: ChatGPT performs at par with fine-tuned models in detecting hate speech and text-level context bias, yet faces difficulties with subtler elements of other bias detections, namely, fake news, racial, gender, and cognitive biases.

------------

`[2403.20180] Measuring Taiwanese Mandarin Language Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20180>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 13:56:21 GMT
    Po-Heng Chen, Sijia Cheng, Wei-Lin Chen, Yen-Ting Lin, Yun-Nung Chen

The evaluation of large language models (LLMs) has drawn substantial attention in the field recently. This work focuses on evaluating LLMs in a Chinese context, specifically, for Traditional Chinese which has been largely underrepresented in existing benchmarks. We present TMLU, a holistic evaluation suit tailored for assessing the advanced knowledge and reasoning capability in LLMs, under the context of Taiwanese Mandarin. TMLU consists of an array of 37 subjects across social science, STEM, humanities, Taiwan-specific content, and others, ranging from middle school to professional levels. In addition, we curate chain-of-thought-like few-shot explanations for each subject to facilitate the evaluation of complex reasoning skills. To establish a comprehensive baseline, we conduct extensive experiments and analysis on 24 advanced LLMs. The results suggest that Chinese open-weight models demonstrate inferior performance comparing to multilingual proprietary ones, and open-weight models tailored for Taiwanese Mandarin lag behind the Simplified-Chinese counterparts. The findings indicate great headrooms for improvement, and emphasize the goal of TMLU to foster the development of localized Taiwanese-Mandarin LLMs. We release the benchmark and evaluation scripts for the community to promote future research.

------------

`[2403.20252] Using LLMs to Model the Beliefs and Preferences of Targeted Populations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20252>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 15:58:46 GMT
    Keiichi Namikoshi, Alex Filipowicz, David A. Shamma, Rumen Iliev, Candice L. Hogan, Nikos Arechiga

We consider the problem of aligning a large language model (LLM) to model the preferences of a human population. Modeling the beliefs, preferences, and behaviors of a specific population can be useful for a variety of different applications, such as conducting simulated focus groups for new products, conducting virtual surveys, and testing behavioral interventions, especially for interventions that are expensive, impractical, or unethical. Existing work has had mixed success using LLMs to accurately model human behavior in different contexts. We benchmark and evaluate two well-known fine-tuning approaches and evaluate the resulting populations on their ability to match the preferences of real human respondents on a survey of preferences for battery electric vehicles (BEVs). We evaluate our models against their ability to match population-wide statistics as well as their ability to match individual responses, and we investigate the role of temperature in controlling the trade-offs between these two. Additionally, we propose and evaluate a novel loss term to improve model performance on responses that require a numeric response.

------------

`[2403.20262] ELITR-Bench: A Meeting Assistant Benchmark for Long-Context Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20262>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 16:13:31 GMT
    Thibaut Thonet, Jos Rozen, Laurent Besacier

Research on Large Language Models (LLMs) has recently witnessed an increasing interest in extending models' context size to better capture dependencies within long documents. While benchmarks have been proposed to assess long-range abilities, existing efforts primarily considered generic tasks that are not necessarily aligned with real-world applications. In contrast, our work proposes a new benchmark for long-context LLMs focused on a practical meeting assistant scenario. In this scenario, the long contexts consist of transcripts obtained by automatic speech recognition, presenting unique challenges for LLMs due to the inherent noisiness and oral nature of such data. Our benchmark, named ELITR-Bench, augments the existing ELITR corpus' transcripts with 271 manually crafted questions and their ground-truth answers. Our experiments with recent long-context LLMs on ELITR-Bench highlight a gap between open-source and proprietary models, especially when questions are asked sequentially within a conversation. We also provide a thorough analysis of our GPT-4-based evaluation method, encompassing insights from a crowdsourcing study. Our findings suggest that while GPT-4's evaluation scores are correlated with human judges', its ability to differentiate among more than three score levels may be limited.

------------

`[2403.20266] Latxa: An Open Language Model and Evaluation Suite for Basque <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20266>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 16:16:48 GMT
    Julen Etxaniz, Oscar Sainz, Naiara Perez, Itziar Aldabe, German Rigau, Eneko Agirre, Aitor Ormazabal, Mikel Artetxe, Aitor Soroa

We introduce Latxa, a family of large language models for Basque ranging from 7 to 70 billion parameters. Latxa is based on Llama 2, which we continue pretraining on a new Basque corpus comprising 4.3M documents and 4.2B tokens.
Addressing the scarcity of high-quality benchmarks for Basque, we further introduce 4 multiple choice evaluation datasets: EusProficiency, comprising 5,169 questions from official language proficiency exams; EusReading, comprising 352 reading comprehension questions; EusTrivia, comprising 1,715 trivia questions from 5 knowledge areas; and EusExams, comprising 16,774 questions from public examinations. In our extensive evaluation, Latxa outperforms all previous open models we compare to by a large margin. In addition, it is competitive with GPT-4 Turbo in language proficiency and understanding, despite lagging behind in reading comprehension and knowledge-intensive tasks. Both the Latxa family of models, as well as our new pretraining corpora and evaluation datasets, are publicly available under open licenses at https://github.com/hitz-zentroa/latxa. Our suite enables reproducible research on methods to build LLMs for low-resource languages.

------------

`[2403.20279] LUQ: Long-text Uncertainty Quantification for LLMs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20279>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 16:49:24 GMT
    Caiqi Zhang, Fangyu Liu, Marco Basaldella, Nigel Collier

Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capability in a variety of NLP tasks. Despite their effectiveness, these models are prone to generate nonfactual content. Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) is pivotal in enhancing our understanding of a model's confidence in its generated content, thereby aiding in the mitigation of nonfactual outputs. Existing research on UQ predominantly targets short text generation, typically yielding brief, word-limited responses. However, real-world applications frequently necessitate much longer responses. Our study first highlights the limitations of current UQ methods in handling long text generation. We then introduce \textsc{Luq}, a novel sampling-based UQ approach specifically designed for long text. Our findings reveal that \textsc{Luq} outperforms existing baseline methods in correlating with the model's factuality scores (negative coefficient of -0.85 observed for Gemini Pro). With \textsc{Luq} as the tool for UQ, we investigate behavior patterns of several popular LLMs' response confidence spectrum and how that interplays with the response' factuality. We identify that LLMs lack confidence in generating long text for rare facts and a factually strong model (i.e. GPT-4) tends to reject questions it is not sure about. To further improve the factual accuracy of LLM responses, we propose a method called \textsc{Luq-Ensemble} that ensembles responses from multiple models and selects the response with the least uncertainty. The ensembling method greatly improves the response factuality upon the best standalone LLM.

------------

`[2403.20288] Can LLMs Correct Physicians, Yet? Investigating Effective Interaction Methods in the Medical Domain <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20288>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 16:59:13 GMT
    Burcu Sayin, Pasquale Minervini, Jacopo Staiano, Andrea Passerini

We explore the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) to assist and potentially correct physicians in medical decision-making tasks. We evaluate several LLMs, including Meditron, Llama2, and Mistral, to analyze the ability of these models to interact effectively with physicians across different scenarios. We consider questions from PubMedQA and several tasks, ranging from binary (yes/no) responses to long answer generation, where the answer of the model is produced after an interaction with a physician. Our findings suggest that prompt design significantly influences the downstream accuracy of LLMs and that LLMs can provide valuable feedback to physicians, challenging incorrect diagnoses and contributing to more accurate decision-making. For example, when the physician is accurate 38% of the time, Mistral can produce the correct answer, improving accuracy up to 74% depending on the prompt being used, while Llama2 and Meditron models exhibit greater sensitivity to prompt choice. Our analysis also uncovers the challenges of ensuring that LLM-generated suggestions are pertinent and useful, emphasizing the need for further research in this area.

------------

`[2403.20327] Gecko: Versatile Text Embeddings Distilled from Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20327>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 17:56:40 GMT
    Jinhyuk Lee, Zhuyun Dai, Xiaoqi Ren, Blair Chen, Daniel Cer, Jeremy R. Cole, Kai Hui, Michael Boratko, Rajvi Kapadia, Wen Ding, Yi Luan, Sai Meher Karthik Duddu, Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Weiqiang Shi, Nithi Gupta, Aditya Kusupati, Prateek Jain, Siddhartha Reddy Jonnalagadda, Ming-Wei Chang, Iftekhar Naim

We present Gecko, a compact and versatile text embedding model. Gecko achieves strong retrieval performance by leveraging a key idea: distilling knowledge from large language models (LLMs) into a retriever. Our two-step distillation process begins with generating diverse, synthetic paired data using an LLM. Next, we further refine the data quality by retrieving a set of candidate passages for each query, and relabeling the positive and hard negative passages using the same LLM. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated by the compactness of the Gecko. On the Massive Text Embedding Benchmark (MTEB), Gecko with 256 embedding dimensions outperforms all existing entries with 768 embedding size. Gecko with 768 embedding dimensions achieves an average score of 66.31, competing with 7x larger models and 5x higher dimensional embeddings.

------------

`[2403.20329] ReALM: Reference Resolution As Language Modeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20329>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 17:59:06 GMT
    Joel Ruben Antony Moniz, Soundarya Krishnan, Melis Ozyildirim, Prathamesh Saraf, Halim Cagri Ates, Yuan Zhang, Hong Yu, Nidhi Rajshree

Reference resolution is an important problem, one that is essential to understand and successfully handle context of different kinds. This context includes both previous turns and context that pertains to non-conversational entities, such as entities on the user's screen or those running in the background. While LLMs have been shown to be extremely powerful for a variety of tasks, their use in reference resolution, particularly for non-conversational entities, remains underutilized. This paper demonstrates how LLMs can be used to create an extremely effective system to resolve references of various types, by showing how reference resolution can be converted into a language modeling problem, despite involving forms of entities like those on screen that are not traditionally conducive to being reduced to a text-only modality. We demonstrate large improvements over an existing system with similar functionality across different types of references, with our smallest model obtaining absolute gains of over 5% for on-screen references. We also benchmark against GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, with our smallest model achieving performance comparable to that of GPT-4, and our larger models substantially outperforming it.

------------

`[2403.20208] Unleashing the Potential of Large Language Models for Predictive Tabular Tasks in Data Science <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20208>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 14:41:21 GMT
    Yazheng Yang, Yuqi Wang, Sankalok Sen, Lei Li, Qi Liu

In the domain of data science, the predictive tasks of classification, regression, and imputation of missing values are commonly encountered challenges associated with tabular data. This research endeavors to apply Large Language Models (LLMs) towards addressing these predictive tasks. Despite their proficiency in comprehending natural language, LLMs fall short in dealing with structured tabular data. This limitation stems from their lacking exposure to the intricacies of tabular data during their foundational training. Our research aims to mitigate this gap by compiling a comprehensive corpus of tables annotated with instructions and executing large-scale training of Llama-2 on this enriched dataset. Furthermore, we investigate the practical application of applying the trained model to zero-shot prediction, few-shot prediction, and in-context learning scenarios. Through extensive experiments, our methodology has shown significant improvements over existing benchmarks.
These advancements highlight the efficacy of tailoring LLM training to solve table-related problems in data science, thereby establishing a new benchmark in the utilization of LLMs for enhancing tabular intelligence.

------------

`[2403.19833] ChatTracer: Large Language Model Powered Real-time Bluetooth Device Tracking System <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19833>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 21:04:11 GMT
    Qijun Wang, Shichen Zhang, Kunzhe Song, Huacheng Zeng

Large language models (LLMs), exemplified by OpenAI ChatGPT and Google Bard, have transformed the way we interact with cyber technologies. In this paper, we study the possibility of connecting LLM with wireless sensor networks (WSN). A successful design will not only extend LLM's knowledge landscape to the physical world but also revolutionize human interaction with WSN. To the end, we present ChatTracer, an LLM-powered real-time Bluetooth device tracking system. ChatTracer comprises three key components: an array of Bluetooth sniffing nodes, a database, and a fine-tuned LLM. ChatTracer was designed based on our experimental observation that commercial Apple/Android devices always broadcast hundreds of BLE packets per minute even in their idle status. Its novelties lie in two aspects: i) a reliable and efficient BLE packet grouping algorithm; and ii) an LLM fine-tuning strategy that combines both supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF). We have built a prototype of ChatTracer with four sniffing nodes. Experimental results show that ChatTracer not only outperforms existing localization approaches, but also provides an intelligent interface for user interaction.

------------

`[2403.19838] Multi-Frame, Lightweight & Efficient Vision-Language Models for Question Answering in Autonomous Driving <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19838>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 21:18:33 GMT
    Akshay Gopalkrishnan, Ross Greer, Mohan Trivedi

Vision-Language Models (VLMs) and Multi-Modal Language models (MMLMs) have become prominent in autonomous driving research, as these models can provide interpretable textual reasoning and responses for end-to-end autonomous driving safety tasks using traffic scene images and other data modalities. However, current approaches to these systems use expensive large language model (LLM) backbones and image encoders, making such systems unsuitable for real-time autonomous driving systems where tight memory constraints exist and fast inference time is necessary. To address these previous issues, we develop EM-VLM4AD, an efficient, lightweight, multi-frame vision language model which performs Visual Question Answering for autonomous driving. In comparison to previous approaches, EM-VLM4AD requires at least 10 times less memory and floating point operations, while also achieving higher BLEU-4, METEOR, CIDEr, and ROGUE scores than the existing baseline on the DriveLM dataset. EM-VLM4AD also exhibits the ability to extract relevant information from traffic views related to prompts and can answer questions for various autonomous driving subtasks. We release our code to train and evaluate our model at https://github.com/akshaygopalkr/EM-VLM4AD.

------------

`[2403.20014] PURPLE: Making a Large Language Model a Better SQL Writer <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20014>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 07:01:29 GMT
    Tonghui Ren, Yuankai Fan, Zhenying He, Ren Huang, Jiaqi Dai, Can Huang, Yinan Jing, Kai Zhang, Yifan Yang, X.Sean Wang

Large Language Model (LLM) techniques play an increasingly important role in Natural Language to SQL (NL2SQL) translation. LLMs trained by extensive corpora have strong natural language understanding and basic SQL generation abilities without additional tuning specific to NL2SQL tasks. Existing LLMs-based NL2SQL approaches try to improve the translation by enhancing the LLMs with an emphasis on user intention understanding. However, LLMs sometimes fail to generate appropriate SQL due to their lack of knowledge in organizing complex logical operator composition. A promising method is to input the LLMs with demonstrations, which include known NL2SQL translations from various databases.
LLMs can learn to organize operator compositions from the input demonstrations for the given task. In this paper, we propose PURPLE (Pre-trained models Utilized to Retrieve Prompts for Logical Enhancement), which improves accuracy by retrieving demonstrations containing the requisite logical operator composition for the NL2SQL task on hand, thereby guiding LLMs to produce better SQL translation. PURPLE achieves a new state-of-the-art performance of 80.5% exact-set match accuracy and 87.8% execution match accuracy on the validation set of the popular NL2SQL benchmark Spider. PURPLE maintains high accuracy across diverse benchmarks, budgetary constraints, and various LLMs, showing robustness and cost-effectiveness.

------------

`[2403.19783] AlloyBERT: Alloy Property Prediction with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19783>`__

::

    Thu, 28 Mar 2024 19:09:46 GMT
    Akshat Chaudhari, Chakradhar Guntuboina, Hongshuo Huang, and Amir Barati Farimani

The pursuit of novel alloys tailored to specific requirements poses significant challenges for researchers in the field. This underscores the importance of developing predictive techniques for essential physical properties of alloys based on their chemical composition and processing parameters. This study introduces AlloyBERT, a transformer encoder-based model designed to predict properties such as elastic modulus and yield strength of alloys using textual inputs. Leveraging the pre-trained RoBERTa encoder model as its foundation, AlloyBERT employs self-attention mechanisms to establish meaningful relationships between words, enabling it to interpret human-readable input and predict target alloy properties. By combining a tokenizer trained on our textual data and a RoBERTa encoder pre-trained and fine-tuned for this specific task, we achieved a mean squared error (MSE) of 0.00015 on the Multi Principal Elemental Alloys (MPEA) data set and 0.00611 on the Refractory Alloy Yield Strength (RAYS) dataset. This surpasses the performance of shallow models, which achieved a best-case MSE of 0.00025 and 0.0076 on the MPEA and RAYS datasets respectively. Our results highlight the potential of language models in material science and establish a foundational framework for text-based prediction of alloy properties that does not rely on complex underlying representations, calculations, or simulations.

------------

`[2403.20020] Nonparametric Bellman Mappings for Reinforcement Learning: Application to Robust Adaptive Filtering <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.20020>`__

::

    Fri, 29 Mar 2024 07:15:30 GMT
    Yuki Akiyama, Minh Vu, and Konstantinos Slavakis

This paper designs novel nonparametric Bellman mappings in reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces (RKHSs) for reinforcement learning (RL). The proposed mappings benefit from the rich approximating properties of RKHSs, adopt no assumptions on the statistics of the data owing to their nonparametric nature, require no knowledge on transition probabilities of Markov decision processes, and may operate without any training data. Moreover, they allow for sampling on-the-fly via the design of trajectory samples, re-use past test data via experience replay, effect dimensionality reduction by random Fourier features, and enable computationally lightweight operations to fit into efficient online or time-adaptive learning. The paper offers also a variational framework to design the free parameters of the proposed Bellman mappings, and shows that appropriate choices of those parameters yield several popular Bellman-mapping designs. As an application, the proposed mappings are employed to offer a novel solution to the problem of countering outliers in adaptive filtering. More specifically, with no prior information on the statistics of the outliers and no training data, a policy-iteration algorithm is introduced to select online, per time instance, the ``optimal'' coefficient p in the least-mean-p-power-error method. Numerical tests on synthetic data showcase, in most of the cases, the superior performance of the proposed solution over several RL and non-RL schemes.

------------

`[2402.02330] Enhance Reasoning for Large Language Models in the Game Werewolf <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02330>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 09:01:56 GMT
    Shuang Wu, Liwen Zhu, Tao Yang, Shiwei Xu, Qiang Fu, Yang Wei, Haobo Fu

Categories

------------

`[2403.15456] WoLF: Wide-scope Large Language Model Framework for CXR Understanding <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15456>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 04:38:51 GMT
    Seil Kang, Donghyun Kim, Junhyeok Kim, Hyo Kyung Lee, Seong Jae Hwang

Categories

------------

`[2304.14178] mPLUG-Owl: Modularization Empowers Large Language Models with Multimodality <https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.14178>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 08:13:38 GMT
    Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang Wang, Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, Chenliang Li, Yuanhong Xu, Hehong Chen, Junfeng Tian, Qi Qian, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, Jingren Zhou

Categories

------------

`[2310.20689] Learning From Mistakes Makes LLM Better Reasoner <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.20689>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 07:17:39 GMT
    Shengnan An, Zexiong Ma, Zeqi Lin, Nanning Zheng, Jian-Guang Lou, Weizhu Chen

Categories

------------

`[2311.01677] DialogBench: Evaluating LLMs as Human-like Dialogue Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01677>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 11:35:30 GMT
    Jiao Ou, Junda Lu, Che Liu, Yihong Tang, Fuzheng Zhang, Di Zhang, Kun Gai

Categories

------------

`[2402.00786] CroissantLLM: A Truly Bilingual French-English Language Model <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00786>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 14:56:42 GMT
    Manuel Faysse, Patrick Fernandes, Nuno M. Guerreiro, Ant\'onio Loison, Duarte M. Alves, Caio Corro, Nicolas Boizard, Jo\~ao Alves, Ricardo Rei, Pedro H. Martins, Antoni Bigata Casademunt, Fran\c{c}ois Yvon, Andr\'e F.T. Martins, Gautier Viaud, C\'eline Hudelot, Pierre Colombo

Categories

------------

`[2402.10189] Uncertainty Quantification for In-Context Learning of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.10189>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Thu, 28 Mar 2024 19:41:34 GMT
    Chen Ling, Xujiang Zhao, Xuchao Zhang, Wei Cheng, Yanchi Liu, Yiyou Sun, Mika Oishi, Takao Osaki, Katsushi Matsuda, Jie Ji, Guangji Bai, Liang Zhao, Haifeng Chen

Categories

------------

`[2402.11676] A Multi-Aspect Framework for Counter Narrative Evaluation using Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11676>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 15:01:38 GMT
    Jaylen Jones, Lingbo Mo, Eric Fosler-Lussier, Huan Sun

Categories

------------

`[2312.05269] LifelongMemory: Leveraging LLMs for Answering Queries in Long-form Egocentric Videos <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05269>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Fri, 29 Mar 2024 15:44:05 GMT
    Ying Wang, Yanlai Yang, Mengye Ren

Categories
