20240101
========

`[2403.08802] Governance of Generative Artificial Intelligence for Companies <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08802>`__

::

    Mon, 5 Feb 2024 14:20:19 GMT
    Johannes Schneider, Rene Abraham, Christian Meske

Abstract

Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI), specifically large language models like ChatGPT, has swiftly entered organizations without adequate governance, posing both opportunities and risks. Despite extensive debates on GenAI's transformative nature and regulatory measures, limited research addresses organizational governance, encompassing technical and business perspectives. This review paper fills this gap by surveying recent works. It goes beyond mere summarization by developing a framework for GenAI governance within companies. Our framework outlines the scope, objectives, and governance mechanisms tailored to harness business opportunities and mitigate risks associated with GenAI integration. This research contributes a focused approach to GenAI governance, offering practical insights for companies navigating the challenges of responsible AI adoption. It is also valuable for a technical audience to broaden their perspective as increasingly ethical and business concerns gain in prevalence and allow them to identify novel research directions.


------------

`[2403.08890] From "um" to "yeah": Producing, predicting, and regulating information flow in human conversation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08890>`__

::

    Wed, 13 Mar 2024 18:20:24 GMT
    Claire Augusta Bergey and Simon DeDeo

Abstract

Conversation demands attention. Speakers must call words to mind, listeners must make sense of them, and both together must negotiate this flow of information, all in fractions of a second. We used large language models to study how this works in a large-scale dataset of English-language conversation, the CANDOR corpus. We provide a new estimate of the information density of unstructured conversation, of approximately 13 bits/second, and find significant effects associated with the cognitive load of both retrieving, and presenting, that information. We also reveal a role for backchannels -- the brief yeahs, uh-huhs, and mhmms that listeners provide -- in regulating the production of novelty: the lead-up to a backchannel is associated with declining information rate, while speech downstream rebounds to previous rates.
Our results provide new insights into long-standing theories of how we respond to fluctuating demands on cognitive resources, and how we negotiate those demands in partnership with others.

