240123
========

`[2401.10995] The Radiation Oncology NLP Database <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10995>`__

::

    Fri, 19 Jan 2024 19:23:37 GMT
    Zhengliang Liu, Jason Holmes, Wenxiong Liao, Chenbin Liu, Lian Zhang, Hongying Feng, Peilong Wang, Muhammad Ali Elahi, Hongmin Cai, Lichao Sun, Quanzheng Li, Xiang Li, Tianming Liu, Jiajian Shen, Wei Liu

We present the Radiation Oncology NLP Database (ROND), the first dedicated Natural Language Processing (NLP) dataset for radiation oncology, an important medical specialty that has received limited attention from the NLP community in the past. With the advent of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), there is an increasing need for specialized datasets and benchmarks to facilitate research and development. ROND is specifically designed to address this gap in the domain of radiation oncology, a field that offers many opportunities for NLP exploration. It encompasses various NLP tasks including Logic Reasoning, Text Classification, Named Entity Recognition (NER), Question Answering (QA), Text Summarization, and Patient-Clinician Conversations, each with a distinct focus on radiation oncology concepts and application cases. In addition, we have developed an instruction-tuning dataset consisting of over 20k instruction pairs (based on ROND) and trained a large language model, CancerChat. This serves to demonstrate the potential of instruction-tuning large language models within a highly-specialized medical domain. The evaluation results in this study could serve as baseline results for future research. ROND aims to stimulate advancements in radiation oncology and clinical NLP by offering a platform for testing and improving algorithms and models in a domain-specific context. The ROND dataset is a joint effort of multiple U.S. health institutions. The data is available at https://github.com/zl-liu/Radiation-Oncology-NLP-Database.

------------

`[2401.11033] FAIR Enough: How Can We Develop and Assess a FAIR-Compliant Dataset for Large Language Models' Training? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11033>`__

::

    Fri, 19 Jan 2024 21:21:02 GMT
    Shaina Raza, Shardul Ghuge, Chen Ding, Deval Pandya

Advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) highlight the need for ethical practices and data integrity. We introduce a framework that embeds FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) data principles into LLM training. This approach marks a shift towards practices compliant with FAIR standards. Our framework presents guidelines for integrating FAIR data principles into LLM training. This initiative includes a checklist for researchers and developers. We also demonstrate its practical application through a case study focused on bias identification and mitigation in our FAIR-compliant dataset. This work is a significant contribution to AI ethics and data science, advocating for balanced and ethical training methods in LLMs.

------------

`[2401.11052] Mining experimental data from Materials Science literature with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11052>`__

::

    Fri, 19 Jan 2024 23:00:31 GMT
    Luca Foppiano, Guillaume Lambard, Toshiyuki Amagasa, Masashi Ishii

This study is dedicated to evaluating the capabilities of advanced large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-3.5-Turbo, GPT-4, and GPT-4-Turbo in the extraction of structured information from scientific documents within the field of materials science. We introduce a novel methodology for the comparative analysis of intricate material expressions, emphasising the standardisation of chemical formulas to tackle the complexities inherent in materials science information assessment. To this end, we primarily focus on two critical tasks of information extraction: (i) a named entity recognition (NER) of studied materials and physical properties and (ii) a relation extraction (RE) between these entities. The performance of LLMs in executing these tasks is benchmarked against traditional models based on the BERT architecture and rule-based approaches. For NER, LLMs fail to outperform the baseline with zero-shot prompting and exhibit only limited improvement with few-shot prompting.
However, for RE, a GPT-3.5-Turbo fine-tuned with the appropriate strategy outperforms all models, including the baseline. Without any fine-tuning, GPT-4 and GPT-4-Turbo display remarkable reasoning and relationship extraction capabilities after being provided with merely a couple of examples, surpassing the baseline. Overall, the results suggest that although LLMs demonstrate relevant reasoning skills in connecting concepts, for tasks requiring extracting complex domain-specific entities like materials, specialised models are currently a better choice.

------------

`[2401.11120] Enhancing Large Language Models for Clinical Decision Support by Incorporating Clinical Practice Guidelines <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11120>`__

::

    Sat, 20 Jan 2024 05:10:46 GMT
    David Oniani, Xizhi Wu, Shyam Visweswaran, Sumit Kapoor, Shravan Kooragayalu, Katelyn Polanska, Yanshan Wang

Background Large Language Models (LLMs), enhanced with Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPGs), can significantly improve Clinical Decision Support (CDS).
However, methods for incorporating CPGs into LLMs are not well studied. Methods We develop three distinct methods for incorporating CPGs into LLMs: Binary Decision Tree (BDT), Program-Aided Graph Construction (PAGC), and Chain-of-Thought-Few-Shot Prompting (CoT-FSP). To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed methods, we create a set of synthetic patient descriptions and conduct both automatic and human evaluation of the responses generated by four LLMs: GPT-4, GPT-3.5 Turbo, LLaMA, and PaLM 2. Zero-Shot Prompting (ZSP) was used as the baseline method. We focus on CDS for COVID-19 outpatient treatment as the case study. Results All four LLMs exhibit improved performance when enhanced with CPGs compared to the baseline ZSP. BDT outperformed both CoT-FSP and PAGC in automatic evaluation. All of the proposed methods demonstrated high performance in human evaluation. Conclusion LLMs enhanced with CPGs demonstrate superior performance, as compared to plain LLMs with ZSP, in providing accurate recommendations for COVID-19 outpatient treatment, which also highlights the potential for broader applications beyond the case study.

------------

`[2401.11185] How the Advent of Ubiquitous Large Language Models both Stymie and Turbocharge Dynamic Adversarial Question Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11185>`__

::

    Sat, 20 Jan 2024 09:49:59 GMT
    Yoo Yeon Sung and Ishani Mondal and Jordan Boyd-Graber

Dynamic adversarial question generation, where humans write examples to stump a model, aims to create examples that are realistic and informative. However, the advent of large language models (LLMs) has been a double-edged sword for human authors: more people are interested in seeing and pushing the limits of these models, but because the models are so much stronger an opponent, they are harder to defeat. To understand how these models impact adversarial question writing process, we enrich the writing guidance with LLMs and retrieval models for the authors to reason why their questions are not adversarial. While authors could create interesting, challenging adversarial questions, they sometimes resort to tricks that result in poor questions that are ambiguous, subjective, or confusing not just to a computer but also to humans. To address these issues, we propose new metrics and incentives for eliciting good, challenging questions and present a new dataset of adversarially authored questions.

------------

`[2401.11206] InferAligner: Inference-Time Alignment for Harmlessness through Cross-Model Guidance <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11206>`__

::

    Sat, 20 Jan 2024 10:41:03 GMT
    Pengyu Wang, Dong Zhang, Linyang Li, Chenkun Tan, Xinghao Wang, Ke Ren, Botian Jiang, Xipeng Qiu

With the rapid development of large language models (LLMs), they are not only used as general-purpose AI assistants but are also customized through further fine-tuning to meet the requirements of different applications. A pivotal factor in the success of current LLMs is the alignment process. Current alignment methods, such as supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), focus on training-time alignment and are often complex and cumbersome to implement. Therefore, we develop \textbf{InferAligner}, a novel inference-time alignment method that utilizes cross-model guidance for harmlessness alignment. InferAligner utilizes safety steering vectors extracted from safety-aligned model to modify the activations of the target model when responding to harmful inputs, thereby guiding the target model to provide harmless responses. Experimental results show that our method can be very effectively applied to domain-specific models in finance, medicine, and mathematics, as well as to multimodal large language models (MLLMs) such as LLaVA. It significantly diminishes the Attack Success Rate (ASR) of both harmful instructions and jailbreak attacks, while maintaining almost unchanged performance in downstream tasks.

------------

`[2401.11246] Prompt-RAG: Pioneering Vector Embedding-Free Retrieval-Augmented Generation in Niche Domains, Exemplified by Korean Medicine <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11246>`__

::

    Sat, 20 Jan 2024 14:59:43 GMT
    Bongsu Kang, Jundong Kim, Tae-Rim Yun, Chang-Eop Kim

We propose a natural language prompt-based retrieval augmented generation (Prompt-RAG), a novel approach to enhance the performance of generative large language models (LLMs) in niche domains. Conventional RAG methods mostly require vector embeddings, yet the suitability of generic LLM-based embedding representations for specialized domains remains uncertain. To explore and exemplify this point, we compared vector embeddings from Korean Medicine (KM) and Conventional Medicine (CM) documents, finding that KM document embeddings correlated more with token overlaps and less with human-assessed document relatedness, in contrast to CM embeddings. Prompt-RAG, distinct from conventional RAG models, operates without the need for embedding vectors. Its performance was assessed through a Question-Answering (QA) chatbot application, where responses were evaluated for relevance, readability, and informativeness.
The results showed that Prompt-RAG outperformed existing models, including ChatGPT and conventional vector embedding-based RAGs, in terms of relevance and informativeness. Despite challenges like content structuring and response latency, the advancements in LLMs are expected to encourage the use of Prompt-RAG, making it a promising tool for other domains in need of RAG methods.

------------

`[2401.11323] Analyzing Task-Encoding Tokens in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11323>`__

::

    Sat, 20 Jan 2024 20:55:21 GMT
    Yu Bai, Heyan Huang, Cesare Spinoso-Di Piano, Marc-Antoine Rondeau, Sanxing Chen, Yang Gao, Jackie Chi Kit Cheung

In-context learning (ICL) has become an effective solution for few-shot learning in natural language processing. Past work has found that, during this process, representations of the last prompt token are utilized to store task reasoning procedures, thereby explaining the working mechanism of in-context learning. In this paper, we seek to locate and analyze other task-encoding tokens whose representations store task reasoning procedures. Supported by experiments that ablate the representations of different token types, we find that template and stopword tokens are the most prone to be task-encoding tokens. In addition, we demonstrate experimentally that lexical cues, repetition, and text formats are the main distinguishing characteristics of these tokens. Our work provides additional insights into how large language models (LLMs) leverage task reasoning procedures in ICL and suggests that future work may involve using task-encoding tokens to improve the computational efficiency of LLMs at inference time and their ability to handle long sequences.

------------

`[2401.11382] Using Large Language Model for End-to-End Chinese ASR and NER <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11382>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 03:15:05 GMT
    Yuang Li, Jiawei Yu, Yanqing Zhao, Min Zhang, Mengxin Ren, Xiaofeng Zhao, Xiaosong Qiao, Chang Su, Miaomiao Ma, Hao Yang

Mapping speech tokens to the same feature space as text tokens has become the paradigm for the integration of speech modality into decoder-only large language models (LLMs). An alternative approach is to use an encoder-decoder architecture that incorporates speech features through cross-attention. This approach, however, has received less attention in the literature. In this work, we connect the Whisper encoder with ChatGLM3 and provide in-depth comparisons of these two approaches using Chinese automatic speech recognition (ASR) and name entity recognition (NER) tasks. We evaluate them not only by conventional metrics like the F1 score but also by a novel fine-grained taxonomy of ASR-NER errors. Our experiments reveal that encoder-decoder architecture outperforms decoder-only architecture with a short context, while decoder-only architecture benefits from a long context as it fully exploits all layers of the LLM. By using LLM, we significantly reduced the entity omission errors and improved the entity ASR accuracy compared to the Conformer baseline. Additionally, we obtained a state-of-the-art (SOTA) F1 score of 0.805 on the AISHELL-NER test set by using chain-of-thought (CoT) NER which first infers long-form ASR transcriptions and then predicts NER labels.

------------

`[2401.11389] MedLM: Exploring Language Models for Medical Question Answering Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11389>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 03:37:47 GMT
    Niraj Yagnik, Jay Jhaveri, Vivek Sharma, Gabriel Pila, Asma Ben, Jingbo Shang

In the face of rapidly expanding online medical literature, automated systems for aggregating and summarizing information are becoming increasingly crucial for healthcare professionals and patients. Large Language Models (LLMs), with their advanced generative capabilities, have shown promise in various NLP tasks, and their potential in the healthcare domain, particularly for Closed-Book Generative QnA, is significant. However, the performance of these models in domain-specific tasks such as medical Q&A remains largely unexplored.
This study aims to fill this gap by comparing the performance of general and medical-specific distilled LMs for medical Q&A. We aim to evaluate the effectiveness of fine-tuning domain-specific LMs and compare the performance of different families of Language Models. The study will address critical questions about these models' reliability, comparative performance, and effectiveness in the context of medical Q&A. The findings will provide valuable insights into the suitability of different LMs for specific applications in the medical domain.

------------

`[2401.11458] Linear Alignment: A Closed-form Solution for Aligning Human Preferences without Tuning and Feedback <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11458>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 10:46:23 GMT
    Songyang Gao, Qiming Ge, Wei Shen, Shihan Dou, Junjie Ye, Xiao Wang, Rui Zheng, Yicheng Zou, Zhi Chen, Hang Yan, Qi Zhang, Dahua Lin

The success of AI assistants based on Language Models (LLMs) hinges on Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) to comprehend and align with user intentions. However, traditional alignment algorithms, such as PPO, are hampered by complex annotation and training requirements. This reliance limits the applicability of RLHF and hinders the development of professional assistants tailored to diverse human preferences. In this work, we introduce \textit{Linear Alignment}, a novel algorithm that aligns language models with human preferences in one single inference step, eliminating the reliance on data annotation and model training. Linear alignment incorporates a new parameterization for policy optimization under divergence constraints, which enables the extraction of optimal policy in a closed-form manner and facilitates the direct estimation of the aligned response. Extensive experiments on both general and personalized preference datasets demonstrate that linear alignment significantly enhances the performance and efficiency of LLM alignment across diverse scenarios. Our code and dataset will be published on \url{https://github.com/Wizardcoast/Linear_Alignment.git}.

------------

`[2401.11467] Over-Reasoning and Redundant Calculation of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11467>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 11:42:18 GMT
    Cheng-Han Chiang, Hung-yi Lee

Large language models (LLMs) can solve problems step-by-step. While this chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning boosts LLMs' performance, it is unclear if LLMs \textit{know} when to use CoT and whether those CoT are always necessary to answer the question. This paper shows that LLMs tend to generate redundant calculations and reasoning on a manually constructed math QA dataset, GSM8K-Zero. GSM8K-Zero is constructed such that the questions can be answered without any calculations, but LLMs, including Llama-2 models and Claude-2, tend to generate lengthy and unnecessary calculations to answer the questions. We also conduct experiments to explain why LLMs generate redundant calculations and reasonings. GSM8K-Zero is publicly available at https://github.com/d223302/Over-Reasoning-of-LLMs and https://huggingface.co/datasets/dcml0714/GSM8K-Zero.

------------

`[2401.11505] CheX-GPT: Harnessing Large Language Models for Enhanced Chest X-ray Report Labeling <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11505>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 14:30:20 GMT
    Jawook Gu, Han-Cheol Cho, Jiho Kim, Kihyun You, Eun Kyoung Hong, Byungseok Roh

Free-text radiology reports present a rich data source for various medical tasks, but effectively labeling these texts remains challenging. Traditional rule-based labeling methods fall short of capturing the nuances of diverse free-text patterns. Moreover, models using expert-annotated data are limited by data scarcity and pre-defined classes, impacting their performance, flexibility and scalability. To address these issues, our study offers three main contributions: 1) We demonstrate the potential of GPT as an adept labeler using carefully designed prompts. 2) Utilizing only the data labeled by GPT, we trained a BERT-based labeler, CheX-GPT, which operates faster and more efficiently than its GPT counterpart. 3) To benchmark labeler performance, we introduced a publicly available expert-annotated test set, MIMIC-500, comprising 500 cases from the MIMIC validation set. Our findings demonstrate that CheX-GPT not only excels in labeling accuracy over existing models, but also showcases superior efficiency, flexibility, and scalability, supported by our introduction of the MIMIC-500 dataset for robust benchmarking. Code and models are available at https://github.com/kakaobrain/CheXGPT.

------------

`[2401.11624] In-context Learning with Retrieved Demonstrations for Language Models: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11624>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 23:34:42 GMT
    an Luo, Xin Xu, Yue Liu, Panupong Pasupat, Mehran Kazemi

Language models, especially pre-trained large language models, have showcased remarkable abilities as few-shot in-context learners (ICL), adept at adapting to new tasks with just a few demonstrations in the input context. However, the model's ability to perform ICL is sensitive to the choice of the few-shot demonstrations. Instead of using a fixed set of demonstrations, one recent development is to retrieve demonstrations tailored to each input query. The implementation of demonstration retrieval is relatively straightforward, leveraging existing databases and retrieval systems. This not only improves the efficiency and scalability of the learning process but also has been shown to reduce biases inherent in manual example selection. In light of the encouraging results and growing research in ICL with retrieved demonstrations, we conduct an extensive review of studies in this area. In this survey, we discuss and compare different design choices for retrieval models, retrieval training procedures, and inference algorithms.

------------

`[2401.11641] Revolutionizing Finance with LLMs: An Overview of Applications and Insights <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11641>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 01:06:17 GMT
    Huaqin Zhao, Zhengliang Liu, Zihao Wu, Yiwei Li, Tianze Yang, Peng Shu, Shaochen Xu, Haixing Dai, Lin Zhao, Gengchen Mai, Ninghao Liu, Tianming Liu

In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have seen considerable advancements and have been applied in diverse fields. Built on the Transformer architecture, these models are trained on extensive datasets, enabling them to understand and generate human language effectively. In the financial domain, the deployment of LLMs is gaining momentum. These models are being utilized for automating financial report generation, forecasting market trends, analyzing investor sentiment, and offering personalized financial advice. Leveraging their natural language processing capabilities, LLMs can distill key insights from vast financial data, aiding institutions in making informed investment choices and enhancing both operational efficiency and customer satisfaction. In this study, we provide a comprehensive overview of the emerging integration of LLMs into various financial tasks. Additionally, we conducted holistic tests on multiple financial tasks through the combination of natural language instructions. Our findings show that GPT-4 effectively follow prompt instructions across various financial tasks. This survey and evaluation of LLMs in the financial domain aim to deepen the understanding of LLMs' current role in finance for both financial practitioners and LLM researchers, identify new research and application prospects, and highlight how these technologies can be leveraged to solve practical challenges in the finance industry.

------------

`[2401.11725] Speak It Out: Solving Symbol-Related Problems with Symbol-to-Language Conversion for Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11725>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:07:06 GMT
    Yile Wang, Sijie Cheng, Zixin Sun, Peng Li, Yang Liu

Symbols (or more broadly, non-natural language textual representations) such as numerical sequences, molecular formulas, and table delimiters widely exist, playing important roles in various tasks such as abstract reasoning, chemical property prediction, and table question answering. Despite the impressive natural language comprehension capabilities of large language models (LLMs), their reasoning abilities for symbols remain inadequate, which could attributed to the difference between symbol representations and general natural languages.
We propose symbol-to-language (S2L), a tuning-free method that enables large language models to solve symbol-related problems with information expressed in natural language. Specifically, S2L first converts the symbols involved to language-based representations, which can be implemented by prompting LLMs or leveraging external tools, then these language-based representations are integrated into the original problem via direct substitution or concatenation, serving as useful input information for LLMs. We evaluate the S2L method using both API-based (GPT-4, ChatGPT) and open-source (OpenChat) models over eight symbol-related tasks, ranging from symbol-only abstract reasoning to sentiment analysis in social media. Experimental results show that S2L consistently leads to superior performance. For example, by employing S2L for GPT-4, there can be average significant improvements of +21.9% and +9.5% for subtasks in 1D-ARC and Dyck language, respectively. Codes and data are available at https://github.com/THUNLP-MT/symbol2language.

------------

`[2401.11817] Hallucination is Inevitable: An Innate Limitation of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11817>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 10:26:14 GMT
    Ziwei Xu, Sanjay Jain, Mohan Kankanhalli

Hallucination has been widely recognized to be a significant drawback for large language models (LLMs). There have been many works that attempt to reduce the extent of hallucination. These efforts have mostly been empirical so far, which cannot answer the fundamental question whether it can be completely eliminated. In this paper, we formalize the problem and show that it is impossible to eliminate hallucination in LLMs. Specifically, we define a formal world where hallucination is defined as inconsistencies between a computable LLM and a computable ground truth function. By employing results from learning theory, we show that LLMs cannot learn all of the computable functions and will therefore always hallucinate. Since the formal world is a part of the real world which is much more complicated, hallucinations are also inevitable for real world LLMs. Furthermore, for real world LLMs constrained by provable time complexity, we describe the hallucination-prone tasks and empirically validate our claims. Finally, using the formal world framework, we discuss the possible mechanisms and efficacies of existing hallucination mitigators as well as the practical implications on the safe deployment of LLMs.

------------

`[2401.11819] SuperCLUE-Math6: Graded Multi-Step Math Reasoning Benchmark for LLMs in Chinese <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11819>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 10:30:11 GMT
    Liang Xu, Hang Xue, Lei Zhu, Kangkang Zhao

We introduce SuperCLUE-Math6(SC-Math6), a new benchmark dataset to evaluate the mathematical reasoning abilities of Chinese language models. SC-Math6 is designed as an upgraded Chinese version of the GSM8K dataset with enhanced difficulty, diversity, and application scope. It consists of over 2000 mathematical word problems requiring multi-step reasoning and providing natural language solutions. We propose an innovative scheme to quantify the reasoning capability of large models based on performance over problems with different reasoning steps. Experiments on 12 representative Chinese models demonstrate a clear stratification of reasoning levels, with top models like GPT-4 showing superior performance. SC-Math6 fills the gap in Chinese mathematical reasoning benchmarks and provides a comprehensive testbed to advance the intelligence of Chinese language models.

------------

`[2401.11839] AI for social science and social science of AI: A Survey <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11839>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 10:57:09 GMT
    Ruoxi Xu, Yingfei Sun, Mengjie Ren, Shiguang Guo, Ruotong Pan, Hongyu Lin, Le Sun, Xianpei Han

Recent advancements in artificial intelligence, particularly with the emergence of large language models (LLMs), have sparked a rethinking of artificial general intelligence possibilities. The increasing human-like capabilities of AI are also attracting attention in social science research, leading to various studies exploring the combination of these two fields. In this survey, we systematically categorize previous explorations in the combination of AI and social science into two directions that share common technical approaches but differ in their research objectives. The first direction is focused on AI for social science, where AI is utilized as a powerful tool to enhance various stages of social science research. While the second direction is the social science of AI, which examines AI agents as social entities with their human-like cognitive and linguistic capabilities. By conducting a thorough review, particularly on the substantial progress facilitated by recent advancements in large language models, this paper introduces a fresh perspective to reassess the relationship between AI and social science, provides a cohesive framework that allows researchers to understand the distinctions and connections between AI for social science and social science of AI, and also summarized state-of-art experiment simulation platforms to facilitate research in these two directions. We believe that as AI technology continues to advance and intelligent agents find increasing applications in our daily lives, the significance of the combination of AI and social science will become even more prominent.

------------

`[2401.11864] Improving Small Language Models' Mathematical Reasoning via Mix Thoughts Distillation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11864>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 11:37:18 GMT
    Xunyu Zhu, Jian Li, Yong Liu, Can Ma, Weiping Wang

This work addresses the challenge of democratizing advanced Large Language Models (LLMs) by compressing their mathematical reasoning capabilities into sub-billion parameter Small Language Models (SLMs) without compromising performance. We introduce Equation-of-Thought Distillation (EoTD), a novel technique that encapsulates the reasoning process into equation-based representations to construct an EoTD dataset for fine-tuning SLMs.
Additionally, we propose the Mix Thoughts Distillation (MTD) framework to enhance the reasoning performance of SLMs. This involves creating a reasoning dataset with multiple thought processes and using it for fine-tuning. Our experimental findings demonstrate that EoTD significantly boosts the reasoning abilities of SLMs, while MTD enables these models to achieve state-of-the-art reasoning performance.

------------

`[2401.11880] PsySafe: A Comprehensive Framework for Psychological-based Attack, Defense, and Evaluation of Multi-agent System Safety <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11880>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 12:11:55 GMT
    Zaibin Zhang, Yongting Zhang, Lijun Li, Hongzhi Gao, Lijun Wang, Huchuan Lu, Feng Zhao, Yu Qiao, Jing Shao

Multi-agent systems, augmented with Large Language Models (LLMs), demonstrate significant capabilities for collective intelligence. However, the potential misuse of this intelligence for malicious purposes presents significant risks.
To date, comprehensive research on the safety issues associated with multi-agent systems remains limited. From the perspective of agent psychology, we discover that the dark psychological states of agents can lead to severe safety issues. To address these issues, we propose a comprehensive framework grounded in agent psychology. In our framework, we focus on three aspects: identifying how dark personality traits in agents might lead to risky behaviors, designing defense strategies to mitigate these risks, and evaluating the safety of multi-agent systems from both psychological and behavioral perspectives. Our experiments reveal several intriguing phenomena, such as the collective dangerous behaviors among agents, agents' propensity for self-reflection when engaging in dangerous behavior, and the correlation between agents' psychological assessments and their dangerous behaviors. We anticipate that our framework and observations will provide valuable insights for further research into the safety of multi-agent systems. We will make our data and code publicly accessible at https:/github.com/AI4Good24/PsySafe.

------------

`[2401.11911] Blinded by Generated Contexts: How Language Models Merge Generated and Retrieved Contexts for Open-Domain QA? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11911>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 12:54:04 GMT
    Hexiang Tan, Fei Sun, Wanli Yang, Yuanzhuo Wang, Qi Cao, Xueqi Cheng

While auxiliary information has become a key to enhance Large Language Models (LLMs), relatively little is known about how well LLMs merge these contexts, specifically generated and retrieved. To study this, we formulate a task specifically designed to identify whether the answers, derived from the integration of generated and retrieved contexts, are attributed to either generated or retrieved contexts. To support this task, we develop a methodology to construct datasets with conflicting contexts, where each question is paired with both generated and retrieved contexts, yet only one of them contains the correct answer. Our experiments reveal a significant bias in LLMs towards generated contexts, as evidenced across state-of-the-art open (Llama2-7b/13b) and closed (GPT 3.5/4) systems. We further identify two key factors contributing to this bias: i) Contexts generated by LLMs typically show greater similarity to the questions, increasing their likelihood of selection; ii) The segmentation process used in retrieved contexts disrupts their completeness, thereby hindering their full utilization in LLMs. Our analysis enhances the understanding of how LLMs merge diverse contexts, offering valuable insights for advancing current augmentation methods for LLMs.

------------

`[2401.11944] CMMMU: A Chinese Massive Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding Benchmark <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11944>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 13:34:34 GMT
    Ge Zhang, Xinrun Du, Bei Chen, Yiming Liang, Tongxu Luo, Tianyu Zheng, Kang Zhu, Yuyang Cheng, Chunpu Xu, Shuyue Guo, Haoran Zhang, Xingwei Qu, Junjie Wang, Ruibin Yuan, Yizhi Li, Zekun Wang, Yudong Liu, Yu-Hsuan Tsai, Fengji Zhang, Chenghua Lin, Wenhao Huang, Wenhu Chen, Jie Fu

As the capabilities of large multimodal models (LMMs) continue to advance, evaluating the performance of LMMs emerges as an increasing need. Additionally, there is an even larger gap in evaluating the advanced knowledge and reasoning abilities of LMMs in non-English contexts such as Chinese. We introduce CMMMU, a new Chinese Massive Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding benchmark designed to evaluate LMMs on tasks demanding college-level subject knowledge and deliberate reasoning in a Chinese context. CMMMU is inspired by and strictly follows the annotation and analysis pattern of MMMU.
CMMMU includes 12k manually collected multimodal questions from college exams, quizzes, and textbooks, covering six core disciplines: Art & Design, Business, Science, Health & Medicine, Humanities & Social Science, and Tech & Engineering, like its companion, MMMU. These questions span 30 subjects and comprise 39 highly heterogeneous image types, such as charts, diagrams, maps, tables, music sheets, and chemical structures.
CMMMU focuses on complex perception and reasoning with domain-specific knowledge in the Chinese context. We evaluate 11 open-source LLMs and one proprietary GPT-4V(ision). Even GPT-4V only achieves accuracies of 42%, indicating a large space for improvement. CMMMU will boost the community to build the next-generation LMMs towards expert artificial intelligence and promote the democratization of LMMs by providing diverse language contexts.

------------

`[2401.12070] Spotting LLMs With Binoculars: Zero-Shot Detection of Machine-Generated Text <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12070>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 16:09:47 GMT
    Abhimanyu Hans, Avi Schwarzschild, Valeriia Cherepanova, Hamid Kazemi, Aniruddha Saha, Micah Goldblum, Jonas Geiping, Tom Goldstein

Detecting text generated by modern large language models is thought to be hard, as both LLMs and humans can exhibit a wide range of complex behaviors.
However, we find that a score based on contrasting two closely related language models is highly accurate at separating human-generated and machine-generated text. Based on this mechanism, we propose a novel LLM detector that only requires simple calculations using a pair of pre-trained LLMs. The method, called Binoculars, achieves state-of-the-art accuracy without any training data. It is capable of spotting machine text from a range of modern LLMs without any model-specific modifications. We comprehensively evaluate Binoculars on a number of text sources and in varied situations. Over a wide range of document types, Binoculars detects over 90% of generated samples from ChatGPT (and other LLMs) at a false positive rate of 0.01%, despite not being trained on any ChatGPT data.

------------

`[2401.12078] Temporal Blind Spots in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12078>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 16:20:14 GMT
    Jonas Wallat, Adam Jatowt, Avishek Anand

Large language models (LLMs) have recently gained significant attention due to their unparalleled ability to perform various natural language processing tasks. These models, benefiting from their advanced natural language understanding capabilities, have demonstrated impressive zero-shot performance.
However, the pre-training data utilized in LLMs is often confined to a specific corpus, resulting in inherent freshness and temporal scope limitations.
Consequently, this raises concerns regarding the effectiveness of LLMs for tasks involving temporal intents. In this study, we aim to investigate the underlying limitations of general-purpose LLMs when deployed for tasks that require a temporal understanding. We pay particular attention to handling factual temporal knowledge through three popular temporal QA datasets.
Specifically, we observe low performance on detailed questions about the past and, surprisingly, for rather new information. In manual and automatic testing, we find multiple temporal errors and characterize the conditions under which QA performance deteriorates. Our analysis contributes to understanding LLM limitations and offers valuable insights into developing future models that can better cater to the demands of temporally-oriented tasks. The code is available\footnote{https://github.com/jwallat/temporalblindspots}.

------------

`[2401.12087] Revisiting Demonstration Selection Strategies in In-Context Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12087>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 16:25:27 GMT
    Keqin Peng, Liang Ding, Yancheng Yuan, Xuebo Liu, Min Zhang, Yuanxin Ouyang, Dacheng Tao

Large language models (LLMs) have shown an impressive ability to perform a wide range of tasks using in-context learning (ICL), where a few examples are used to describe a task to the model. However, the performance of ICL varies significantly with the choice of demonstrations, and it is still unclear why this happens or what factors will influence its choice. In this work, we first revisit the factors contributing to this variance from both data and model aspects, and find that the choice of demonstration is both data- and model-dependent. We further proposed a data- and model-dependent demonstration selection method, \textbf{TopK + ConE}, based on the assumption that \textit{the performance of a demonstration positively correlates with its contribution to the model's understanding of the test samples}, resulting in a simple and effective recipe for ICL. Empirically, our method yields consistent improvements in both language understanding and generation tasks with different model scales. Further analyses confirm that, besides the generality and stability under different circumstances, our method provides a unified explanation for the effectiveness of previous methods. Code will be released.

------------

`[2401.12097] An Empirical Analysis of In-context Learning Abilities of LLMs for MT <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12097>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 16:35:00 GMT
    Pranjal A. Chitale, Jay Gala, Varun Gumma, Mitesh M. Khapra, Raj Dabre

In-context learning (ICL) has consistently demonstrated superior performance over zero-shot performance in large language models (LLMs). However, the understanding of the dynamics of ICL and the aspects that influence downstream performance remains limited, especially for natural language generation (NLG) tasks. This work aims to address this gap by investigating the ICL capabilities of LLMs and studying the impact of different aspects of the in-context demonstrations for the task of machine translation (MT). Our preliminary investigations aim to discern whether in-context learning (ICL) is predominantly influenced by demonstrations or instructions by applying diverse perturbations to in-context demonstrations while preserving the task instruction. We observe varying behavior to perturbed examples across different model families, notably with BLOOM-7B derivatives being severely influenced by noise, whereas Llama 2 derivatives not only exhibit robustness but also tend to show enhancements over the clean baseline when subject to perturbed demonstrations. This suggests that the robustness of ICL may be governed by several factors, including the type of noise, perturbation direction (source or target), the extent of pretraining of the specific model, and fine-tuning for downstream tasks if applicable. Further investigation is warranted to develop a comprehensive understanding of these factors in future research.

------------

`[2401.12117] The Curious Case of Nonverbal Abstract Reasoning with Multi-Modal Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12117>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 16:57:05 GMT
    Kian Ahrabian, Zhivar Sourati, Kexuan Sun, Jiarui Zhang, Yifan Jiang, Fred Morstatter, Jay Pujara

While large language models (LLMs) are still being adopted to new domains and utilized in novel applications, we are experiencing an influx of the new generation of foundation models, namely multi-modal large language models (MLLMs). These models integrate verbal and visual information, opening new possibilities to demonstrate more complex reasoning abilities at the intersection of the two modalities. However, despite the revolutionizing prospect of MLLMs, our understanding of their reasoning abilities is limited.
In this study, we assess the nonverbal abstract reasoning abilities of open-source and closed-source MLLMs using variations of Raven's Progressive Matrices. Our experiments expose the difficulty of solving such problems while showcasing the immense gap between open-source and closed-source models. We also reveal critical shortcomings with individual visual and textual modules, subjecting the models to low-performance ceilings. Finally, to improve MLLMs' performance, we experiment with various methods, such as Chain-of-Thought prompting, resulting in a significant (up to 100%) boost in performance.

------------

`[2401.12192] Text Embedding Inversion Attacks on Multilingual Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12192>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:34:42 GMT
    Yiyi Chen and Heather Lent and Johannes Bjerva

Representing textual information as real-numbered embeddings has become the norm in NLP. Moreover, with the rise of public interest in large language models (LLMs), Embeddings as a Service (EaaS) has rapidly gained traction as a business model. This is not without outstanding security risks, as previous research has demonstrated that sensitive data can be reconstructed from embeddings, even without knowledge of the underlying model that generated them.
However, such work is limited by its sole focus on English, leaving all other languages vulnerable to attacks by malicious actors. %As many international and multilingual companies leverage EaaS, there is an urgent need for research into multilingual LLM security. To this end, this work investigates LLM security from the perspective of multilingual embedding inversion. Concretely, we define the problem of black-box multilingual and cross-lingual inversion attacks, with special attention to a cross-domain scenario. Our findings reveal that multilingual models are potentially more vulnerable to inversion attacks than their monolingual counterparts. This stems from the reduced data requirements for achieving comparable inversion performance in settings where the underlying language is not known a-priori. To our knowledge, this work is the first to delve into multilinguality within the context of inversion attacks, and our findings highlight the need for further investigation and enhanced defenses in the area of NLP Security.

------------

`[2401.12200] APT: Adaptive Pruning and Tuning Pretrained Language Models for Efficient Training and Inference <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12200>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:39:40 GMT
    Bowen Zhao, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Qingqing Cao

Fine-tuning and inference with large Language Models (LM) are generally known to be expensive. Parameter-efficient fine-tuning over pretrained LMs reduces training memory by updating a small number of LM parameters but does not improve inference efficiency. Structured pruning improves LM inference efficiency by removing consistent parameter blocks, yet often increases training memory and time. To improve both training and inference efficiency, we introduce APT that adaptively prunes and tunes parameters for the LMs. At the early stage of fine-tuning, APT dynamically adds salient tuning parameters for fast and accurate convergence while discarding unimportant parameters for efficiency. Compared to baselines, our experiments show that APT maintains up to 98% task performance when pruning RoBERTa and T5 models with 40% parameters left while keeping 86.4% LLaMA models' performance with 70% parameters remained. Furthermore, APT speeds up LMs fine-tuning by up to 8x and reduces large LMs memory training footprint by up to 70%.

------------

`[2401.12187] WARM: On the Benefits of Weight Averaged Reward Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12187>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:27:08 GMT
    Alexandre Ram\'e, Nino Vieillard, L\'eonard Hussenot, Robert Dadashi, Geoffrey Cideron, Olivier Bachem, Johan Ferret

Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences through reinforcement learning (RLHF) can lead to reward hacking, where LLMs exploit failures in the reward model (RM) to achieve seemingly high rewards without meeting the underlying objectives. We identify two primary challenges when designing RMs to mitigate reward hacking: distribution shifts during the RL process and inconsistencies in human preferences. As a solution, we propose Weight Averaged Reward Models (WARM), first fine-tuning multiple RMs, then averaging them in the weight space. This strategy follows the observation that fine-tuned weights remain linearly mode connected when sharing the same pre-training. By averaging weights, WARM improves efficiency compared to the traditional ensembling of predictions, while improving reliability under distribution shifts and robustness to preference inconsistencies. Our experiments on summarization tasks, using best-of-N and RL methods, shows that WARM improves the overall quality and alignment of LLM predictions; for example, a policy RL fine-tuned with WARM has a 79.4% win rate against a policy RL fine-tuned with a single RM.

------------

`[2401.10910] Metacognition is all you need? Using Introspection in Generative Agents to Improve Goal-directed Behavior <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10910>`__

::

    Tue, 9 Jan 2024 15:00:47 GMT
    Jason Toy, Josh MacAdam, Phil Tabor

Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities in various applications, yet LLMs face challenges such as limited context windows and difficulties in generalization. In this paper, we introduce a metacognition module for generative agents, enabling them to observe their own thought processes and actions. This metacognitive approach, designed to emulate System 1 and System 2 cognitive processes, allows agents to significantly enhance their performance by modifying their strategy. We tested the metacognition module on a variety of scenarios, including a situation where generative agents must survive a zombie apocalypse, and observe that our system outperform others, while agents adapt and improve their strategies to complete tasks over time.

------------

`[2401.10956] AI Revolution on Chat Bot: Evidence from a Randomized Controlled Experiment <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10956>`__

::

    Fri, 19 Jan 2024 05:54:35 GMT
    Sida Peng, Wojciech Swiatek, Allen Gao, Paul Cullivan, Haoge Chang

In recent years, generative AI has undergone major advancements, demonstrating significant promise in augmenting human productivity. Notably, large language models (LLM), with ChatGPT-4 as an example, have drawn considerable attention. Numerous articles have examined the impact of LLM-based tools on human productivity in lab settings and designed tasks or in observational studies. Despite recent advances, field experiments applying LLM-based tools in realistic settings are limited. This paper presents the findings of a field randomized controlled trial assessing the effectiveness of LLM-based tools in providing unmonitored support services for information retrieval.

------------

`[2401.11061] PhotoBot: Reference-Guided Interactive Photography via Natural Language <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11061>`__

::

    Fri, 19 Jan 2024 23:34:48 GMT
    Oliver Limoyo, Jimmy Li, Dmitriy Rivkin, Jonathan Kelly, and Gregory Dudek

We introduce PhotoBot, a framework for automated photo acquisition based on an interplay between high-level human language guidance and a robot photographer. We propose to communicate photography suggestions to the user via a reference picture that is retrieved from a curated gallery. We exploit a visual language model (VLM) and an object detector to characterize reference pictures via textual descriptions and use a large language model (LLM) to retrieve relevant reference pictures based on a user's language query through text-based reasoning. To correspond the reference picture and the observed scene, we exploit pre-trained features from a vision transformer capable of capturing semantic similarity across significantly varying images. Using these features, we compute pose adjustments for an RGB-D camera by solving a Perspective-n-Point (PnP) problem. We demonstrate our approach on a real-world manipulator equipped with a wrist camera. Our user studies show that photos taken by PhotoBot are often more aesthetically pleasing than those taken by users themselves, as measured by human feedback.

------------

`[2401.11314] CodeAid: Evaluating a Classroom Deployment of an LLM-based Programming Assistant that Balances Student and Educator Needs <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11314>`__

::

    Sat, 20 Jan 2024 20:14:42 GMT
    Majeed Kazemitabaar, Runlong Ye, Xiaoning Wang, Austin Z. Henley, Paul Denny, Michelle Craig, Tovi Grossman

Timely, personalized feedback is essential for students learning programming, especially as class sizes expand. LLM-based tools like ChatGPT offer instant support, but reveal direct answers with code, which may hinder deep conceptual engagement. We developed CodeAid, an LLM-based programming assistant delivering helpful, technically correct responses, without revealing code solutions. For example, CodeAid can answer conceptual questions, generate pseudo-code with line-by-line explanations, and annotate student's incorrect code with fix suggestions. We deployed CodeAid in a programming class of 700 students for a 12-week semester. A thematic analysis of 8,000 usages of CodeAid was performed, further enriched by weekly surveys, and 22 student interviews. We then interviewed eight programming educators to gain further insights on CodeAid.
Findings revealed students primarily used CodeAid for conceptual understanding and debugging, although a minority tried to obtain direct code. Educators appreciated CodeAid's educational approach, and expressed concerns about occasional incorrect feedback and students defaulting to ChatGPT.

------------

`[2401.11439] General Flow as Foundation Affordance for Scalable Robot Learning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11439>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 09:39:11 GMT
    Chengbo Yuan, Chuan Wen, Tong Zhang, Yang Gao

We address the challenge of acquiring real-world manipulation skills with a scalable framework.Inspired by the success of large-scale auto-regressive prediction in Large Language Models (LLMs), we hold the belief that identifying an appropriate prediction target capable of leveraging large-scale datasets is crucial for achieving efficient and universal learning. Therefore, we propose to utilize flow, which represents the future trajectories of 3D points on objects of interest, as an ideal prediction target in robot learning. To exploit scalable data resources, we turn our attention to cross-embodiment datasets. We develop, for the first time, a language-conditioned prediction model directly from large-scale RGBD human video datasets. Our predicted flow offers actionable geometric and physics guidance, thus facilitating stable zero-shot skill transfer in real-world scenarios.We deploy our method with a policy based on closed-loop flow prediction. Remarkably, without any additional training, our method achieves an impressive 81% success rate in human-to-robot skill transfer, covering 18 tasks in 6 scenes. Our framework features the following benefits: (1) scalability: leveraging cross-embodiment data resources; (2) universality: multiple object categories, including rigid, articulated, and soft bodies; (3) stable skill transfer: providing actionable guidance with a small inference domain-gap. These lead to a new pathway towards scalable general robot learning. Data, code, and model weights will be made publicly available.

------------

`[2401.11459] AttentionLego: An Open-Source Building Block For Spatially-Scalable Large Language Model Accelerator With Processing-In-Memory Technology <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11459>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 10:48:08 GMT
    Rongqing Cong, Wenyang He, Mingxuan Li, Bangning Luo, Zebin Yang, Yuchao Yang, Ru Huang, Bonan Yan

Large language models (LLMs) with Transformer architectures have become phenomenal in natural language processing, multimodal generative artificial intelligence, and agent-oriented artificial intelligence. The self-attention module is the most dominating sub-structure inside Transformer-based LLMs.
Computation using general-purpose graphics processing units (GPUs) inflicts reckless demand for I/O bandwidth for transferring intermediate calculation results between memories and processing units. To tackle this challenge, this work develops a fully customized vanilla self-attention accelerator, AttentionLego, as the basic building block for constructing spatially expandable LLM processors. AttentionLego provides basic implementation with fully-customized digital logic incorporating Processing-In-Memory (PIM) technology. It is based on PIM-based matrix-vector multiplication and look-up table-based Softmax design. The open-source code is available online: https://bonany.cc/attentionleg.

------------

`[2401.11500] Integration of Large Language Models in Control of EHD Pumps for Precise Color Synthesis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11500>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 14:10:27 GMT
    Yanhong Peng, Ceng Zhang, Chenlong Hu, Zebing Mao

This paper presents an innovative approach to integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) with Arduino-controlled Electrohydrodynamic (EHD) pumps for precise color synthesis in automation systems. We propose a novel framework that employs fine-tuned LLMs to interpret natural language commands and convert them into specific operational instructions for EHD pump control. This approach aims to enhance user interaction with complex hardware systems, making it more intuitive and efficient. The methodology involves four key steps: fine-tuning the language model with a dataset of color specifications and corresponding Arduino code, developing a natural language processing interface, translating user inputs into executable Arduino code, and controlling EHD pumps for accurate color mixing. Conceptual experiment results, based on theoretical assumptions, indicate a high potential for accurate color synthesis, efficient language model interpretation, and reliable EHD pump operation. This research extends the application of LLMs beyond text-based tasks, demonstrating their potential in industrial automation and control systems. While highlighting the limitations and the need for real-world testing, this study opens new avenues for AI applications in physical system control and sets a foundation for future advancements in AI-driven automation technologies.

------------

`[2401.11452] Towards Reliable and Factual Response Generation: Detecting Unanswerable Questions in Information-Seeking Conversations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11452>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 10:15:36 GMT
    Weronika {\L}ajewska, Krisztian Balog

Generative AI models face the challenge of hallucinations that can undermine users' trust in such systems. We approach the problem of conversational information seeking as a two-step process, where relevant passages in a corpus are identified first and then summarized into a final system response. This way we can automatically assess if the answer to the user's question is present in the corpus. Specifically, our proposed method employs a sentence-level classifier to detect if the answer is present, then aggregates these predictions on the passage level, and eventually across the top-ranked passages to arrive at a final answerability estimate. For training and evaluation, we develop a dataset based on the TREC CAsT benchmark that includes answerability labels on the sentence, passage, and ranking levels. We demonstrate that our proposed method represents a strong baseline and outperforms a state-of-the-art LLM on the answerability prediction task.

------------

`[2401.12208] CheXagent: Towards a Foundation Model for Chest X-Ray Interpretation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.12208>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:51:07 GMT
    Zhihong Chen, Maya Varma, Jean-Benoit Delbrouck, Magdalini Paschali, Louis Blankemeier, Dave Van Veen, Jeya Maria Jose Valanarasu, Alaa Youssef, Joseph Paul Cohen, Eduardo Pontes Reis, Emily B. Tsai, Andrew Johnston, Cameron Olsen, Tanishq Mathew Abraham, Sergios Gatidis, Akshay S. Chaudhari, Curtis Langlotz

Chest X-rays (CXRs) are the most frequently performed imaging test in clinical practice. Recent advances in the development of vision-language foundation models (FMs) give rise to the possibility of performing automated CXR interpretation, which can assist physicians with clinical decision-making and improve patient outcomes. However, developing FMs that can accurately interpret CXRs is challenging due to the (1) limited availability of large-scale vision-language datasets in the medical image domain, (2) lack of vision and language encoders that can capture the complexities of medical data, and (3) absence of evaluation frameworks for benchmarking the abilities of FMs on CXR interpretation. In this work, we address these challenges by first introducing \emph{CheXinstruct} - a large-scale instruction-tuning dataset curated from 28 publicly-available datasets. We then present \emph{CheXagent} - an instruction-tuned FM capable of analyzing and summarizing CXRs. To build CheXagent, we design a clinical large language model (LLM) for parsing radiology reports, a vision encoder for representing CXR images, and a network to bridge the vision and language modalities. Finally, we introduce \emph{CheXbench} - a novel benchmark designed to systematically evaluate FMs across 8 clinically-relevant CXR interpretation tasks. Extensive quantitative evaluations and qualitative reviews with five expert radiologists demonstrate that CheXagent outperforms previously-developed general- and medical-domain FMs on CheXbench tasks. Furthermore, in an effort to improve model transparency, we perform a fairness evaluation across factors of sex, race and age to highlight potential performance disparities. Our project is at \url{https://stanford-aimi.github.io/chexagent.html}.

------------

`[2401.11506] Enhancing Recommendation Diversity by Re-ranking with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11506>`__

::

    Sun, 21 Jan 2024 14:33:52 GMT
    Diego Carraro and Derek Bridge

It has long been recognized that it is not enough for a Recommender System (RS) to provide recommendations based only on their relevance to users. Among many other criteria, the set of recommendations may need to be diverse in order to handle uncertainty and offer a meaningful choice. The literature reports many ways of measuring diversity and ways of improving the diversity of a set of recommendations, most notably by re-ranking and selecting from a larger set of candidate recommendations. Driven by promising insights from the literature on how to incorporate versatile Large Language Models (LLMs) into the RS pipeline, in this paper, we show how LLMs can be used for diversity re-ranking.
We begin with an informal study that verifies that LLMs can be used for re-ranking tasks and do have some understanding of the concept of diversity.
Then, we design a more rigorous methodology where LLMs are prompted to generate a diverse ranking from a candidate ranking using various prompt templates with different re-ranking instructions in a zero-shot fashion. We conduct comprehensive experiments testing state-of-the-art conversational LLMs from the GPT and Llama families. We compare their re-ranking capabilities with random re-ranking and various traditional re-ranking methods from the literature (MMR, xQuAD and RxQuAD). We find that LLM-based re-ranking outperforms random re-ranking across all the metrics that we use but does not perform as well as the traditional re-ranking methods. We gain insight into prompt design for this task (e.g.\ on the whole, it is better to prompt for diversity rather than a balance of diversity and relevance). Given that no special knowledge engineering is needed, we conclude that LLM-based re-ranking is a promising approach, and we highlight directions for future research. We open-source the code of our experiments for reproducibility.

------------

`[2401.11888] Multimodal Deep Learning of Word-of-Mouth Text and Demographics to Predict Customer Rating: Handling Consumer Heterogeneity in Marketing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11888>`__

::

    Mon, 22 Jan 2024 12:28:50 GMT
    Junichiro Niimi

In the marketing field, understanding consumer heterogeneity, which is the internal or psychological difference among consumers that cannot be captured by behavioral logs, has long been a critical challenge. However, a number of consumers today usually post their evaluation on the specific product on the online platform, which can be the valuable source of such unobservable differences among consumers. Several previous studies have shown the validity of the analysis on text modality, but on the other hand, such analyses may not necessarily demonstrate sufficient predictive accuracy for text alone, as they may not include information readily available from cross-sectional data, such as consumer profile data. In addition, recent advances in machine learning techniques, such as large-scale language models (LLMs) and multimodal learning have made it possible to deal with the various kind of dataset simultaneously, including textual data and the traditional cross-sectional data, and the joint representations can be effectively obtained from multiple modalities.
Therefore, this study constructs a product evaluation model that takes into account consumer heterogeneity by multimodal learning of online product reviews and consumer profile information. We also compare multiple models using different modalities or hyper-parameters to demonstrate the robustness of multimodal learning in marketing analysis.

------------

`[2304.14317] ICE-Score: Instructing Large Language Models to Evaluate Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.14317>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 17:06:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Terry Yue Zhuo [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 27 Apr 2023 16:38:17 UTC (685 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 17:06:50 UTC (213 KB)
    Terry Yue Zhuo

Recent advancements in the field of natural language generation have facilitated the use of large language models to assess the quality of generated text. Although these models have shown promising results in tasks such as machine translation and summarization, their applicability in code intelligence tasks remains limited without human involvement. The complexity of programming concepts required for such tasks makes it difficult to develop evaluation metrics that align with human judgment. Token-matching-based metrics, such as BLEU, have demonstrated weak correlations with human practitioners in code intelligence tasks. Moreover, utilizing human-written test suites to evaluate functional correctness can be challenging in domains with low resources. To overcome these obstacles, we propose \texttt{ICE-Score}, a new evaluation metric via instructing large language models (LLMs) for code assessments. Our metric addresses the limitations of existing approaches by achieving superior correlations with functional correctness and human preferences, without the need for test oracles or references. We evaluate the efficacy of our metric on two different aspects (\textit{human preference} and \textit{execution success}) and four programming languages. Our results demonstrate that our metric surpasses state-of-the-art metrics for code generation, delivering high levels of accuracy and consistency across various programming languages and tasks. We also make our evaluation metric and datasets available to the public\footnote{\url{this https URL}}, encouraging further research in evaluating code intelligence tasks.

------------

`[2308.13894] FwdLLM: Efficient FedLLM using Forward Gradient <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13894>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 09:24:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Dongqi Cai [view email]
    [v1] Sat, 26 Aug 2023 14:36:30 UTC (19,786 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 09:24:33 UTC (19,605 KB)
    Mengwei Xu, Dongqi Cai, Yaozong Wu, Xiang Li, Shangguang Wang

Large Language Models (LLMs) are transforming the landscape of mobile intelligence. Federated Learning (FL), a method to preserve user data privacy, is often employed in fine-tuning LLMs to downstream mobile tasks, an approach known as FedLLM. Though recent efforts have addressed the network issue induced by the vast model size, they have not practically mitigated vital challenges concerning integration with mobile devices, such as significant memory consumption and sluggish model convergence.
In response to these challenges, this work introduces FwdLLM, an innovative FL protocol designed to enhance the FedLLM efficiency. The key idea of FwdLLM to employ backpropagation (BP)-free training methods, requiring devices only to execute ``perturbed inferences''. Consequently, FwdLLM delivers way better memory efficiency and time efficiency (expedited by mobile NPUs and an expanded array of participant devices). FwdLLM centers around three key designs: (1) it combines BP-free training with parameter-efficient training methods, an essential way to scale the approach to the LLM era; (2) it systematically and adaptively allocates computational loads across devices, striking a careful balance between convergence speed and accuracy; (3) it discriminatively samples perturbed predictions that are more valuable to model convergence. Comprehensive experiments with five LLMs and three NLP tasks illustrate FwdLLM's significant advantages over conventional methods, including up to three orders of magnitude faster convergence and a 14.6x reduction in memory footprint. Uniquely, FwdLLM paves the way for federated learning of billion-parameter LLMs such as LLaMA on COTS mobile devices -- a feat previously unattained.

------------

`[2309.01538] ChatRule: Mining Logical Rules with Large Language Models for Knowledge Graph Reasoning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01538>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 02:39:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Linhao Luo [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 4 Sep 2023 11:38:02 UTC (711 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 13 Sep 2023 13:00:23 UTC (717 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 02:39:17 UTC (600 KB)
    Linhao Luo, Jiaxin Ju, Bo Xiong, Yuan-Fang Li, Gholamreza Haffari, Shirui Pan

Logical rules are essential for uncovering the logical connections between relations, which could improve reasoning performance and provide interpretable results on knowledge graphs (KGs). Although there have been many efforts to mine meaningful logical rules over KGs, existing methods suffer from computationally intensive searches over the rule space and a lack of scalability for large-scale KGs. Besides, they often ignore the semantics of relations which is crucial for uncovering logical connections. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have shown impressive performance in the field of natural language processing and various applications, owing to their emergent ability and generalizability. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, ChatRule, unleashing the power of large language models for mining logical rules over knowledge graphs. Specifically, the framework is initiated with an LLM-based rule generator, leveraging both the semantic and structural information of KGs to prompt LLMs to generate logical rules. To refine the generated rules, a rule ranking module estimates the rule quality by incorporating facts from existing KGs. Last, the ranked rules can be used to conduct reasoning over KGs. ChatRule is evaluated on four large-scale KGs, w.r.t. different rule quality metrics and downstream tasks, showing the effectiveness and scalability of our method.

------------

`[2311.06979] Assessing the Interpretability of Programmatic Policies with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06979>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 09:13:40 GMT
    Submission history From: Zahra Bashir [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 12 Nov 2023 22:43:26 UTC (67 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 09:13:40 UTC (148 KB)
    Zahra Bashir, Michael Bowling, Levi H. S. Lelis

Although the synthesis of programs encoding policies often carries the promise of interpretability, systematic evaluations were never performed to assess the interpretability of these policies, likely because of the complexity of such an evaluation. In this paper, we introduce a novel metric that uses large-language models (LLM) to assess the interpretability of programmatic policies. For our metric, an LLM is given both a program and a description of its associated programming language. The LLM then formulates a natural language explanation of the program. This explanation is subsequently fed into a second LLM, which tries to reconstruct the program from the natural-language explanation. Our metric then measures the behavioral similarity between the reconstructed program and the original. We validate our approach with synthesized and human-crafted programmatic policies for playing a real-time strategy game, comparing the interpretability scores of these programmatic policies to obfuscated versions of the same programs. Our LLM-based interpretability score consistently ranks less interpretable programs lower and more interpretable ones higher. These findings suggest that our metric could serve as a reliable and inexpensive tool for evaluating the interpretability of programmatic policies.

------------

`[2311.13373] Large Language Model as a Policy Teacher for Training Reinforcement Learning Agents <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.13373>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 11:08:04 GMT
    Submission history From: Bin Liu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 22 Nov 2023 13:15:42 UTC (944 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 27 Nov 2023 09:24:25 UTC (946 KB)
    [v3] Wed, 29 Nov 2023 08:39:37 UTC (946 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 11:08:04 UTC (1,596 KB)
    Zihao Zhou, Bin Hu, Chenyang Zhao, Pu Zhang, Bin Liu

Recent studies have uncovered the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) in addressing complex sequential decision-making tasks through the provision of high-level instructions. However, LLM-based agents lack specialization in tackling specific target problems, particularly in real-time dynamic environments. Additionally, deploying an LLM-based agent in practical scenarios can be both costly and time-consuming. On the other hand, reinforcement learning (RL) approaches train agents that specialize in the target task but often suffer from low sampling efficiency and high exploration costs. In this paper, we introduce a novel framework that addresses these challenges by training a smaller, specialized student RL agent using instructions from an LLM-based teacher agent. By incorporating the guidance from the teacher agent, the student agent can distill the prior knowledge of the LLM into its own model. Consequently, the student agent can be trained with significantly less data. Moreover, through further training with environment feedback, the student agent surpasses the capabilities of its teacher for completing the target task. We conducted experiments on challenging MiniGrid and Habitat environments, specifically designed for embodied AI research, to evaluate the effectiveness of our framework. The results clearly demonstrate that our approach achieves superior performance compared to strong baseline methods. Our code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2401.02500] On the Prospects of Incorporating Large Language Models (LLMs) in Automated Planning and Scheduling (APS) <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.02500>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 12:10:26 GMT
    Submission history From: Vishal Pallagani [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 4 Jan 2024 19:22:09 UTC (448 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 12:10:26 UTC (448 KB)
    Vishal Pallagani, Kaushik Roy, Bharath Muppasani, Francesco Fabiano, Andrea Loreggia, Keerthiram Murugesan, Biplav Srivastava, Francesca Rossi, Lior Horesh, Amit Sheth

Automated Planning and Scheduling is among the growing areas in Artificial Intelligence (AI) where mention of LLMs has gained popularity. Based on a comprehensive review of 126 papers, this paper investigates eight categories based on the unique applications of LLMs in addressing various aspects of planning problems: language translation, plan generation, model construction, multi-agent planning, interactive planning, heuristics optimization, tool integration, and brain-inspired planning. For each category, we articulate the issues considered and existing gaps. A critical insight resulting from our review is that the true potential of LLMs unfolds when they are integrated with traditional symbolic planners, pointing towards a promising neuro-symbolic approach. This approach effectively combines the generative aspects of LLMs with the precision of classical planning methods. By synthesizing insights from existing literature, we underline the potential of this integration to address complex planning challenges. Our goal is to encourage the ICAPS community to recognize the complementary strengths of LLMs and symbolic planners, advocating for a direction in automated planning that leverages these synergistic capabilities to develop more advanced and intelligent planning systems.

------------

`[2305.14578] Connecting the Dots: What Graph-Based Text Representations Work Best for Text Classification Using Graph Neural Networks? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14578>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 14:13:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Margarita Bugueo [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 23 May 2023 23:31:24 UTC (6,926 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 14:13:51 UTC (7,314 KB)
    Margarita Bugue\~no, Gerard de Melo

Given the success of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) for structure-aware machine learning, many studies have explored their use for text classification, but mostly in specific domains with limited data characteristics. Moreover, some strategies prior to GNNs relied on graph mining and classical machine learning, making it difficult to assess their effectiveness in modern settings. This work extensively investigates graph representation methods for text classification, identifying practical implications and open challenges. We compare different graph construction schemes using a variety of GNN architectures and setups across five datasets, encompassing short and long documents as well as unbalanced scenarios in diverse domains. Two Transformer-based large language models are also included to complement the study. The results show that i) although the effectiveness of graphs depends on the textual input features and domain, simple graph constructions perform better the longer the documents are, ii) graph representations are especially beneficial for longer documents, outperforming Transformer-based models, iii) graph methods are particularly efficient at solving the task.

------------

`[2305.16326] Large language models in biomedical natural language processing: benchmarks, baselines, and recommendations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16326>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 14:33:54 GMT
    Submission history From: Qingyu Chen [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 10 May 2023 13:40:06 UTC (449 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 14:33:54 UTC (672 KB)
    Qingyu Chen, Jingcheng Du, Yan Hu, Vipina Kuttichi Keloth, Xueqing Peng, Kalpana Raja, Rui Zhang, Zhiyong Lu, Hua Xu

Biomedical literature is growing rapidly, making it challenging to curate and extract knowledge manually. Biomedical natural language processing (BioNLP) techniques that can automatically extract information from biomedical literature help alleviate this burden. Recently, large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-3 and GPT-4, have gained significant attention for their impressive performance. However, their effectiveness in BioNLP tasks and impact on method development and downstream users remain understudied. This pilot study (1) establishes the baseline performance of GPT-3 and GPT-4 at both zero-shot and one-shot settings in eight BioNLP datasets across four applications: named entity recognition, relation extraction, multi-label document classification, and semantic similarity and reasoning, (2) examines the errors produced by the LLMs and categorized the errors into three types: missingness, inconsistencies, and unwanted artificial content, and (3) provides suggestions for using LLMs in BioNLP applications. We make the datasets, baselines, and results publicly available to the community via this https URL.

------------

`[2307.04408] TIM: Teaching Large Language Models to Translate with Comparison <https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04408>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:40:02 GMT
    Submission history From: Jiali Zeng [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 10 Jul 2023 08:15:40 UTC (7,823 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 14 Sep 2023 07:58:00 UTC (7,783 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:40:02 UTC (8,957 KB)
    Jiali Zeng and Fandong Meng and Yongjing Yin and Jie Zhou

Open-sourced large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable efficacy in various tasks with instruction tuning. However, these models can sometimes struggle with tasks that require more specialized knowledge such as translation. One possible reason for such deficiency is that instruction tuning aims to generate fluent and coherent text that continues from a given instruction without being constrained by any task-specific requirements. Moreover, it can be more challenging for tuning smaller LLMs with lower-quality training data. To address this issue, we propose a novel framework using examples in comparison to teach LLMs to learn translation. Our approach involves presenting the model with examples of correct and incorrect translations and using a preference loss to guide the model's learning. We evaluate our method on WMT2022 test sets and show that it outperforms existing methods. Our findings offer a new perspective on fine-tuning LLMs for translation tasks and provide a promising solution for generating high-quality translations. Please refer to Github for more details: this https URL.

------------

`[2309.05173] DePT: Decomposed Prompt Tuning for Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.05173>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 21 Jan 2024 13:38:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhengxiang Shi [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 11 Sep 2023 00:02:05 UTC (686 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 12 Oct 2023 17:25:44 UTC (686 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 18 Dec 2023 12:17:54 UTC (688 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 13:38:20 UTC (691 KB)
    [v5] Sun, 18 Feb 2024 10:02:23 UTC (695 KB)
    Zhengxiang Shi, Aldo Lipani

Prompt tuning (PT), where a small amount of trainable soft (continuous) prompt vectors is affixed to the input of language models (LM), has shown promising results across various tasks and models for parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT). PT stands out from other PEFT approaches because it maintains competitive performance with fewer trainable parameters and does not drastically scale up its parameters as the model size expands. However, PT introduces additional soft prompt tokens, leading to longer input sequences, which significantly impacts training and inference time and memory usage due to the Transformer's quadratic complexity. Particularly concerning for Large Language Models (LLMs) that face heavy daily querying. To address this issue, we propose Decomposed Prompt Tuning (DePT), which decomposes the soft prompt into a shorter soft prompt and a pair of low-rank matrices that are then optimised with two different learning rates. This allows DePT to achieve better performance while saving substantial memory and time costs compared to vanilla PT and its variants, without changing trainable parameter sizes. Through extensive experiments on 23 natural language processing (NLP) and vision-language (VL) tasks, we demonstrate that DePT outperforms state-of-the-art PEFT approaches, including the full fine-tuning baseline, in some scenarios. Additionally, we empirically show that DEPT grows more efficient as the model size increases. Our further study reveals that DePT integrates seamlessly with parameter-efficient transfer learning in the few-shot learning setting and highlights its adaptability to various model architectures and sizes.

------------

`[2309.12247] Bad Actor, Good Advisor: Exploring the Role of Large Language Models in Fake News Detection <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12247>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:24:30 GMT
    Submission history From: Qiang Sheng [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 16:47:30 UTC (1,010 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:24:30 UTC (946 KB)
    Beizhe Hu, Qiang Sheng, Juan Cao, Yuhui Shi, Yang Li, Danding Wang, Peng Qi

Detecting fake news requires both a delicate sense of diverse clues and a profound understanding of the real-world background, which remains challenging for detectors based on small language models (SLMs) due to their knowledge and capability limitations. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in various tasks, but whether and how LLMs could help with fake news detection remains underexplored. In this paper, we investigate the potential of LLMs in fake news detection. First, we conduct an empirical study and find that a sophisticated LLM such as GPT 3.5 could generally expose fake news and provide desirable multi-perspective rationales but still underperforms the basic SLM, fine-tuned BERT. Our subsequent analysis attributes such a gap to the LLM's inability to select and integrate rationales properly to conclude. Based on these findings, we propose that current LLMs may not substitute fine-tuned SLMs in fake news detection but can be a good advisor for SLMs by providing multi-perspective instructive rationales. To instantiate this proposal, we design an adaptive rationale guidance network for fake news detection (ARG), in which SLMs selectively acquire insights on news analysis from the LLMs' rationales. We further derive a rationale-free version of ARG by distillation, namely ARG-D, which services cost-sensitive scenarios without querying LLMs. Experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate that ARG and ARG-D outperform three types of baseline methods, including SLM-based, LLM-based, and combinations of small and large language models.

------------

`[2310.01386] Who is ChatGPT? Benchmarking LLMs' Psychological Portrayal Using PsychoBench <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01386>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 13:58:50 GMT
    Submission history From: Jen-Tse Huang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 2 Oct 2023 17:46:09 UTC (7,676 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 13:58:50 UTC (7,704 KB)
    Jen-tse Huang, Wenxuan Wang, Eric John Li, Man Ho Lam, Shujie Ren, Youliang Yuan, Wenxiang Jiao, Zhaopeng Tu, Michael R. Lyu

Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently showcased their remarkable capacities, not only in natural language processing tasks but also across diverse domains such as clinical medicine, legal consultation, and education. LLMs become more than mere applications, evolving into assistants capable of addressing diverse user requests. This narrows the distinction between human beings and artificial intelligence agents, raising intriguing questions regarding the potential manifestation of personalities, temperaments, and emotions within LLMs. In this paper, we propose a framework, PsychoBench, for evaluating diverse psychological aspects of LLMs. Comprising thirteen scales commonly used in clinical psychology, PsychoBench further classifies these scales into four distinct categories: personality traits, interpersonal relationships, motivational tests, and emotional abilities. Our study examines five popular models, namely text-davinci-003, gpt-3.5-turbo, gpt-4, LLaMA-2-7b, and LLaMA-2-13b. Additionally, we employ a jailbreak approach to bypass the safety alignment protocols and test the intrinsic natures of LLMs. We have made PsychoBench openly accessible via this https URL.

------------

`[2310.02118] TWIZ-v2: The Wizard of Multimodal Conversational-Stimulus <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02118>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 14:41:43 GMT
    Submission history From: Rafael Ferreira [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 14:59:35 UTC (14,123 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 14:41:43 UTC (14,123 KB)
    Rafael Ferreira, Diogo Tavares, Diogo Silva, Rodrigo Val\'erio, Jo\~ao Bordalo, In\^es Sim\~oes, Vasco Ramos, David Semedo, Jo\~ao Magalh\~aes

In this report, we describe the vision, challenges, and scientific contributions of the Task Wizard team, TWIZ, in the Alexa Prize TaskBot Challenge 2022. Our vision, is to build TWIZ bot as an helpful, multimodal, knowledgeable, and engaging assistant that can guide users towards the successful completion of complex manual tasks. To achieve this, we focus our efforts on three main research questions: (1) Humanly-Shaped Conversations, by providing information in a knowledgeable way; (2) Multimodal Stimulus, making use of various modalities including voice, images, and videos; and (3) Zero-shot Conversational Flows, to improve the robustness of the interaction to unseen scenarios. TWIZ is an assistant capable of supporting a wide range of tasks, with several innovative features such as creative cooking, video navigation through voice, and the robust TWIZ-LLM, a Large Language Model trained for dialoguing about complex manual tasks. Given ratings and feedback provided by users, we observed that TWIZ bot is an effective and robust system, capable of guiding users through tasks while providing several multimodal stimuli.

------------

`[2310.10873] IDEAL: Influence-Driven Selective Annotations Empower In-Context Learners in Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10873>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 03:58:10 GMT
    Submission history From: Xiaobo Xia [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 16 Oct 2023 22:53:54 UTC (470 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 03:58:10 UTC (443 KB)
    Shaokun Zhang, Xiaobo Xia, Zhaoqing Wang, Ling-Hao Chen, Jiale Liu, Qingyun Wu, Tongliang Liu

In-context learning is a promising paradigm that utilizes in-context examples as prompts for the predictions of large language models. These prompts are crucial for achieving strong performance. However, since the prompts need to be sampled from a large volume of annotated examples, finding the right prompt may result in high annotation costs. To address this challenge, this paper introduces an influence-driven selective annotation method that aims to minimize annotation costs while improving the quality of in-context examples. The essence of our method is to select a pivotal subset from a large-scale unlabeled data pool to annotate for the subsequent sampling of prompts. Specifically, a directed graph is first constructed to represent unlabeled data. Afterward, the influence of candidate unlabeled subsets is quantified with a diffusion process. A simple yet effective greedy algorithm for unlabeled data selection is lastly introduced. It iteratively selects the data if it provides a maximum marginal gain with respect to quantified influence. Compared with previous efforts on selective annotations, our influence-driven method works in an end-to-end manner, avoids an intractable explicit balance between data diversity and representativeness, and enjoys theoretical support. Experiments confirm the superiority of the proposed method on various benchmarks, achieving better performance under lower time consumption during subset selection. The project page is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2311.07989] Unifying the Perspectives of NLP and Software Engineering: A Survey on Language Models for Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.07989>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 12:27:47 GMT
    Submission history From: Ziyin Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 14 Nov 2023 08:34:26 UTC (458 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 19 Nov 2023 08:37:31 UTC (473 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 5 Dec 2023 13:09:06 UTC (542 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 12:27:47 UTC (574 KB)
    Ziyin Zhang and Chaoyu Chen and Bingchang Liu and Cong Liao and Zi Gong and Hang Yu and Jianguo Li and Rui Wang

In this work we systematically review the recent advancements in code processing with language models, covering 50+ models, 30+ evaluation tasks, 170+ datasets, and 700+ related works. We break down code processing models into general language models represented by the GPT family and specialized models that are specifically pretrained on code, often with tailored objectives. We discuss the relations and differences between these models, and highlight the historical transition of code modeling from statistical models and RNNs to pretrained Transformers and LLMs, which is exactly the same course that had been taken by NLP. We also discuss code-specific features such as AST, CFG, and unit tests, along with their application in training code language models, and identify key challenges and potential future directions in this domain. We keep the survey open and updated on GitHub at this https URL.

------------

`[2312.03122] Assertion Enhanced Few-Shot Learning: Instructive Technique for Large Language Models to Generate Educational Explanations <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03122>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 15:02:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Tasmia Shahriar [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 5 Dec 2023 20:41:34 UTC (1,324 KB)
    [v2] Thu, 18 Jan 2024 16:53:15 UTC (1,674 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 15:02:20 UTC (1,674 KB)
    Tasmia Shahriar, Kelly Ramos and Noboru Matsuda

Human educators possess an intrinsic ability to anticipate and seek educational explanations from students, which drives them to pose thought-provoking questions when students cannot articulate these explanations independently. We aim to imbue Intelligent Tutoring Systems with this ability using few-shot learning capability of Large Language Models. Our work proposes a novel prompting technique, Assertion Enhanced Few-Shot Learning, to facilitate the generation of accurate, detailed oriented educational explanations. Our central hypothesis is that, in educational domain, few-shot demonstrations are necessary but not a sufficient condition for quality explanation generation. We conducted a study involving 12 in-service teachers, comparing our approach to Traditional Few-Shot Learning. The results show that Assertion Enhanced Few-Shot Learning improves explanation accuracy by 15% and yields higher-quality explanations, as evaluated by teachers. We also conduct a qualitative ablation study to factor the impact of assertions to provide educator-friendly prompting guidelines for generating explanations in their domain of interest.

------------

`[2312.15407] A Comprehensive Analysis of the Effectiveness of Large Language Models as Automatic Dialogue Evaluators <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15407>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 06:26:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Chen Zhang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 24 Dec 2023 04:50:57 UTC (1,495 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 06:26:33 UTC (1,540 KB)
    Chen Zhang, Luis Fernando D'Haro, Yiming Chen, Malu Zhang, Haizhou Li

Automatic evaluation is an integral aspect of dialogue system research. The traditional reference-based NLG metrics are generally found to be unsuitable for dialogue assessment. Consequently, recent studies have suggested various unique, reference-free neural metrics that better align with human evaluations. Notably among them, large language models (LLMs), particularly the instruction-tuned variants like ChatGPT, are shown to be promising substitutes for human judges. Yet, existing works on utilizing LLMs for automatic dialogue evaluation are limited in their scope in terms of the number of meta-evaluation datasets, mode of evaluation, coverage of LLMs, etc. Hence, it remains inconclusive how effective these LLMs are. To this end, we conduct a comprehensive study on the application of LLMs for automatic dialogue evaluation. Specifically, we analyze the multi-dimensional evaluation capability of 30 recently emerged LLMs at both turn and dialogue levels, using a comprehensive set of 12 meta-evaluation datasets. Additionally, we probe the robustness of the LLMs in handling various adversarial perturbations at both turn and dialogue levels. Finally, we explore how model-level and dimension-level ensembles impact the evaluation performance. All resources are available at this https URL.

------------

`[2312.17080] MR-GSM8K: A Meta-Reasoning Revolution in Large Language Model Evaluation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17080>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 14:08:16 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhongshen Zeng [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 28 Dec 2023 15:49:43 UTC (1,358 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 14:08:16 UTC (1,364 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 12:27:52 UTC (1,364 KB)
    Zhongshen Zeng, Pengguang Chen, Shu Liu, Haiyun Jiang, Jiaya Jia

In this work, we introduce a novel evaluation paradigm for Large Language Models, one that challenges them to engage in meta-reasoning. This approach addresses critical shortcomings in existing math problem-solving benchmarks, traditionally used to evaluate the cognitive capabilities of agents. Our paradigm shifts the focus from result-oriented assessments, which often overlook the reasoning process, to a more holistic evaluation that effectively differentiates the cognitive capabilities among models. For example, in our benchmark, GPT-4 demonstrates a performance five times better than GPT3-5. The significance of this new paradigm lies in its ability to reveal potential cognitive deficiencies in LLMs that current benchmarks, such as GSM8K, fail to uncover due to their saturation and lack of effective differentiation among varying reasoning abilities. Our comprehensive analysis includes several state-of-the-art math models from both open-source and closed-source communities, uncovering fundamental deficiencies in their training and evaluation approaches. This paper not only advocates for a paradigm shift in the assessment of LLMs but also contributes to the ongoing discourse on the trajectory towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). By promoting the adoption of meta-reasoning evaluation methods similar to ours, we aim to facilitate a more accurate assessment of the true cognitive abilities of LLMs.

------------

`[2401.04620] Agent Alignment in Evolving Social Norms <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04620>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 13:04:29 GMT
    Submission history From: Shimin Li [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 9 Jan 2024 15:44:44 UTC (2,485 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 10 Jan 2024 12:30:42 UTC (2,485 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 13:04:29 UTC (2,617 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 20 Feb 2024 03:24:55 UTC (2,287 KB)
    Shimin Li, Tianxiang Sun, Xipeng Qiu

Agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly permeating various domains of human production and life, highlighting the importance of aligning them with human values. The current alignment of AI systems primarily focuses on passively aligning LLMs through human intervention. However, agents possess characteristics like receiving environmental feedback and self-evolution, rendering the LLM alignment methods inadequate. In response, we propose an evolutionary framework for agent evolution and alignment, named EvolutionaryAgent, which transforms agent alignment into a process of evolution and selection under the principle of survival of the fittest. In an environment where social norms continuously evolve, agents better adapted to the current social norms will have a higher probability of survival and proliferation, while those inadequately aligned dwindle over time. Experimental results assessing the agents from multiple perspectives in aligning with social norms demonstrate that EvolutionaryAgent can align progressively better with the evolving social norms while maintaining its proficiency in general tasks. Effectiveness tests conducted on various open and closed-source LLMs as the foundation for agents also prove the applicability of our approach.

------------

`[2401.04925] The Impact of Reasoning Step Length on Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04925>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 17:23:31 GMT
    Submission history From: Mingyu Jin [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 10 Jan 2024 04:37:38 UTC (411 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 16 Jan 2024 17:40:14 UTC (411 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 17:23:31 UTC (411 KB)
    Mingyu Jin, Qinkai Yu, Dong Shu, Haiyan Zhao, Wenyue Hua, Yanda Meng, Yongfeng Zhang, Mengnan Du

Chain of Thought (CoT) is significant in improving the reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs). However, the correlation between the effectiveness of CoT and the length of reasoning steps in prompts remains largely unknown. To shed light on this, we have conducted several empirical experiments to explore the relations. Specifically, we design experiments that expand and compress the rationale reasoning steps within CoT demonstrations, while keeping all other factors constant. We have the following key findings. First, the results indicate that lengthening the reasoning steps in prompts, even without adding new information into the prompt, considerably enhances LLMs' reasoning abilities across multiple datasets. Alternatively, shortening the reasoning steps, even while preserving the key information, significantly diminishes the reasoning abilities of models. This finding highlights the importance of the number of steps in CoT prompts and provides practical guidance to make better use of LLMs' potential in complex problem-solving scenarios. Second, we also investigated the relationship between the performance of CoT and the rationales used in demonstrations. Surprisingly, the result shows that even incorrect rationales can yield favorable outcomes if they maintain the requisite length of inference. Third, we observed that the advantages of increasing reasoning steps are task-dependent: simpler tasks require fewer steps, whereas complex tasks gain significantly from longer inference sequences.

------------

`[2401.05949] Universal Vulnerabilities in Large Language Models: In-context Learning Backdoor Attacks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05949>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 13:46:33 GMT
    Submission history From: Shuai Zhao [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 11 Jan 2024 14:38:19 UTC (6,517 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 08:32:24 UTC (8,725 KB)
    [v3] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 13:46:33 UTC (8,734 KB)
    [v4] Fri, 16 Feb 2024 13:45:25 UTC (13,021 KB)
    Shuai Zhao, Meihuizi Jia, Luu Anh Tuan, Jinming Wen

In-context learning, a paradigm bridging the gap between pre-training and fine-tuning, has demonstrated high efficacy in several NLP tasks, especially in few-shot settings. Despite being widely applied, in-context learning is vulnerable to malicious attacks. In this work, we raise security concerns regarding this paradigm. Our studies demonstrate that an attacker can manipulate the behavior of large language models by poisoning the demonstration context, without the need for fine-tuning the model. Specifically, we design a new backdoor attack method, named ICLAttack, to target large language models based on in-context learning. Our method encompasses two types of attacks: poisoning demonstration examples and poisoning demonstration prompts, which can make models behave in alignment with predefined intentions. ICLAttack does not require additional fine-tuning to implant a backdoor, thus preserving the model's generality. Furthermore, the poisoned examples are correctly labeled, enhancing the natural stealth of our attack method. Extensive experimental results across several language models, ranging in size from 1.3B to 180B parameters, demonstrate the effectiveness of our attack method, exemplified by a high average attack success rate of 95.0% across the three datasets on OPT models.

------------

`[2401.06766] Mind Your Format: Towards Consistent Evaluation of In-Context Learning Improvements <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06766>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:55:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Lena Wolf [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 12 Jan 2024 18:58:26 UTC (1,282 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:55:35 UTC (1,283 KB)
    Anton Voronov, Lena Wolf, Max Ryabinin

Large language models demonstrate a remarkable capability for learning to solve new tasks from a few examples. The prompt template, or the way the input examples are formatted to obtain the prompt, is an important yet often overlooked aspect of in-context learning. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive study of the template format's influence on the in-context learning performance. We evaluate the impact of the prompt template across models (from 770M to 70B parameters) and 4 standard classification datasets. We show that a poor choice of the template can reduce the performance of the strongest models and inference methods to a random guess level. More importantly, the best templates do not transfer between different setups and even between models of the same family. Our findings show that the currently prevalent approach to evaluation, which ignores template selection, may give misleading results due to different templates in different works. As a first step towards mitigating this issue, we propose Template Ensembles that aggregate model predictions across several templates. This simple test-time augmentation boosts average performance while being robust to the choice of random set of templates.

------------

`[2401.09003] Augmenting Math Word Problems via Iterative Question Composing <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.09003>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 12:43:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Haoxiong Liu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 17 Jan 2024 06:48:16 UTC (82 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 12:43:37 UTC (85 KB)
    [v3] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 15:29:10 UTC (91 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 11 Feb 2024 04:10:53 UTC (101 KB)
    Haoxiong Liu, Andrew Chi-Chih Yao

Despite the advancements in large language models (LLMs) for mathematical reasoning, solving competition-level math problems remains a significant challenge, especially for open-source LLMs without external tools. We introduce the MMIQC dataset, comprising a mixture of processed web data and synthetic question-response pairs, aimed at enhancing the mathematical reasoning capabilities of base language models. Models fine-tuned on MMIQC consistently surpass their counterparts in performance on the MATH benchmark across various model sizes. Notably, Qwen-72B-MMIQC achieves a 45.0% accuracy, exceeding the previous open-source state-of-the-art by 8.2% and outperforming the initial version GPT-4 released in 2023. Extensive evaluation results on Hungarian high school finals suggest that such improvement can generalize to unseen data. Our ablation study on MMIQC reveals that a large part of the improvement can be attributed to our novel augmentation method, Iterative Question Composing (IQC), which involves iteratively composing new questions from seed problems using an LLM and applying rejection sampling through another LLM. The MMIQC dataset is available on the HuggingFace hub at this https URL. Our code is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2401.09798] All in How You Ask for It: Simple Black-Box Method for Jailbreak Attacks <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.09798>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 06:22:55 GMT
    Submission history From: Kazuhiro Takemoto [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 18 Jan 2024 08:36:54 UTC (47 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 06:22:55 UTC (51 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 12 Feb 2024 02:29:28 UTC (51 KB)
    Kazuhiro Takemoto

Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, encounter `jailbreak' challenges, wherein safeguards are circumvented to generate ethically harmful prompts. This study introduces a straightforward black-box method for efficiently crafting jailbreak prompts, addressing the significant complexity and computational costs associated with conventional methods. Our technique iteratively transforms harmful prompts into benign expressions directly utilizing the target LLM, predicated on the hypothesis that LLMs can autonomously generate expressions that evade safeguards. Through experiments conducted with ChatGPT (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) and Gemini-Pro, our method consistently achieved an attack success rate exceeding 80% within an average of five iterations for forbidden questions and proved robust against model updates. The jailbreak prompts generated were not only naturally-worded and succinct but also challenging to defend against. These findings suggest that the creation of effective jailbreak prompts is less complex than previously believed, underscoring the heightened risk posed by black-box jailbreak attacks.

------------

`[2401.10491] Knowledge Fusion of Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10491>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 17:16:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Fanqi Wan [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 19 Jan 2024 05:02:46 UTC (306 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 17:16:37 UTC (306 KB)
    Fanqi Wan, Xinting Huang, Deng Cai, Xiaojun Quan, Wei Bi, Shuming Shi

While training large language models (LLMs) from scratch can generate models with distinct functionalities and strengths, it comes at significant costs and may result in redundant capabilities. Alternatively, a cost-effective and compelling approach is to merge existing pre-trained LLMs into a more potent model. However, due to the varying architectures of these LLMs, directly blending their weights is impractical. In this paper, we introduce the notion of knowledge fusion for LLMs, aimed at combining the capabilities of existing LLMs and transferring them into a single LLM. By leveraging the generative distributions of source LLMs, we externalize their collective knowledge and unique strengths, thereby potentially elevating the capabilities of the target model beyond those of any individual source LLM. We validate our approach using three popular LLMs with different architectures--Llama-2, MPT, and OpenLLaMA--across various benchmarks and tasks. Our findings confirm that the fusion of LLMs can improve the performance of the target model across a range of capabilities such as reasoning, commonsense, and code generation. Our code, model weights, and data are public at \url{this https URL}.

------------

`[2310.01361] GenSim: Generating Robotic Simulation Tasks via Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01361>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 21 Jan 2024 21:01:12 GMT
    Submission history From: Lirui Wang [view email]
    [v1] Mon, 2 Oct 2023 17:23:48 UTC (22,405 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 21:01:12 UTC (29,260 KB)
    Lirui Wang, Yiyang Ling, Zhecheng Yuan, Mohit Shridhar, Chen Bao, Yuzhe Qin, Bailin Wang, Huazhe Xu, Xiaolong Wang

Collecting large amounts of real-world interaction data to train general robotic policies is often prohibitively expensive, thus motivating the use of simulation data. However, existing methods for data generation have generally focused on scene-level diversity (e.g., object instances and poses) rather than task-level diversity, due to the human effort required to come up with and verify novel tasks. This has made it challenging for policies trained on simulation data to demonstrate significant task-level generalization. In this paper, we propose to automatically generate rich simulation environments and expert demonstrations by exploiting a large language models' (LLM) grounding and coding ability. Our approach, dubbed GenSim, has two modes: goal-directed generation, wherein a target task is given to the LLM and the LLM proposes a task curriculum to solve the target task, and exploratory generation, wherein the LLM bootstraps from previous tasks and iteratively proposes novel tasks that would be helpful in solving more complex tasks. We use GPT4 to expand the existing benchmark by ten times to over 100 tasks, on which we conduct supervised finetuning and evaluate several LLMs including finetuned GPTs and Code Llama on code generation for robotic simulation tasks. Furthermore, we observe that LLMs-generated simulation programs can enhance task-level generalization significantly when used for multitask policy training. We further find that with minimal sim-to-real adaptation, the multitask policies pretrained on GPT4-generated simulation tasks exhibit stronger transfer to unseen long-horizon tasks in the real world and outperform baselines by 25%. See the project website (this https URL) for code, demos, and videos.

------------

`[2401.09074] Code Simulation Challenges for Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.09074>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 21 Jan 2024 15:15:30 GMT
    Submission history From: Emanuele La Malfa [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 17 Jan 2024 09:23:59 UTC (8,355 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 15:15:30 UTC (8,472 KB)
    Emanuele La Malfa, Christoph Weinhuber, Orazio Torre, Fangru Lin, Anthony Cohn, Nigel Shadbolt, Michael Wooldridge

We investigate the extent to which Large Language Models (LLMs) can simulate the execution of computer code and algorithms. We begin by looking at straight line programs, and show that current LLMs demonstrate poor performance even with such simple programs -- performance rapidly degrades with the length of code. We then investigate the ability of LLMs to simulate programs that contain critical paths and redundant instructions. We also go beyond straight line program simulation with sorting algorithms and nested loops, and we show the computational complexity of a routine directly affects the ability of an LLM to simulate its execution. We observe that LLMs execute instructions sequentially and with a low error margin only for short programs or standard procedures. LLMs' code simulation is in tension with their pattern recognition and memorisation capabilities: on tasks where memorisation is detrimental, we propose a novel prompting method to simulate code execution line by line. Empirically, our new Chain of Simulation (CoSm) method improves on the standard Chain of Thought prompting approach by avoiding the pitfalls of memorisation.

------------

`[2308.13507] Large Language Models Should Ask Clarifying Questions to Increase Confidence in Generated Code <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13507>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:54:52 GMT
    Submission history From: Jie JW Wu PhD [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 25 Aug 2023 17:33:05 UTC (296 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:54:52 UTC (296 KB)
    Jie JW Wu

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly improved the ability to perform tasks in the field of code generation. However, there is still a gap between LLMs being capable coders and being top-tier software engineers. Based on the observation that toplevel software engineers often ask clarifying questions to reduce ambiguity in both requirements and coding solutions, I argue that the same should be applied to LLMs for code generation tasks. By asking probing questions in various topics before generating the final code, the challenges of programming with LLMs, such as unclear intent specification, lack of computational thinking, and undesired code quality, may be alleviated. This, in turn, increases confidence in the generated code. In this work, I explore how to leverage better communication skills to achieve greater confidence in generated code. I propose a communication-centered process that uses an LLM-generated communicator to identify issues with high ambiguity or low confidence in problem descriptions and generated code. I then ask clarifying questions to obtain responses from users for refining the code.

------------

`[2309.05030] Decolonial AI Alignment: Openness, Vi\'{s}e\d{s}a-Dharma, and Including Excluded Knowledges <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.05030>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:22:37 GMT
    Submission history From: Kush Varshney [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 10 Sep 2023 14:04:21 UTC (19 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:22:37 UTC (237 KB)
    Kush R. Varshney

Prior work has explicated the coloniality of artificial intelligence (AI) development and deployment through mechanisms such as extractivism, automation, sociological essentialism, surveillance, and containment. However, that work has not engaged much with alignment: teaching behaviors to a large language model (LLM) in line with desired values, and has not considered a mechanism that arises within that process: moral absolutism -- a part of the coloniality of knowledge. Colonialism has a history of altering the beliefs and values of colonized peoples; in this paper, I argue that this history is recapitulated in current LLM alignment practices and technologies. Furthermore, I suggest that AI alignment be decolonialized using three forms of openness: openness of models, openness to society, and openness to excluded knowledges. This suggested approach to decolonial AI alignment uses ideas from the argumentative moral philosophical tradition of Hinduism, which has been described as an open-source religion. One concept used is vie\d{s}a-dharma, or particular context-specific notions of right and wrong. At the end of the paper, I provide a suggested reference architecture to work toward the proposed framework.

------------

`[2309.12244] ChaCha: Leveraging Large Language Models to Prompt Children to Share Their Emotions about Personal Events <https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12244>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 21 Jan 2024 16:30:35 GMT
    Submission history From: Young-Ho Kim [view email]
    [v1] Thu, 21 Sep 2023 16:43:17 UTC (8,518 KB)
    [v2] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 16:30:35 UTC (8,527 KB)
    [v3] Fri, 26 Jan 2024 16:02:13 UTC (8,527 KB)
    [v4] Mon, 19 Feb 2024 03:22:07 UTC (8,573 KB)
    Woosuk Seo, Chanmo Yang, Young-Ho Kim

Children typically learn to identify and express emotions through sharing their stories and feelings with others, particularly their family. However, it is challenging for parents or siblings to have emotional communication with children since children are still developing their communication skills. We present ChaCha, a chatbot that encourages and guides children to share personal events and associated emotions. ChaCha combines a state machine and large language models (LLMs) to keep the dialogue on track while carrying on free-form conversations. Through an exploratory study with 20 children (aged 8-12), we examine how ChaCha prompts children to share personal events and guides them to describe associated emotions. Participants perceived ChaCha as a close friend and shared their stories on various topics, such as family trips and personal achievements. Based on the findings, we discuss opportunities for leveraging LLMs to design child-friendly chatbots to support children in sharing emotions.

------------

`[2310.02255] MathVista: Evaluating Mathematical Reasoning of Foundation Models in Visual Contexts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02255>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 21 Jan 2024 03:47:06 GMT
    Submission history From: Pan Lu [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 3 Oct 2023 17:57:24 UTC (12,562 KB)
    [v2] Wed, 25 Oct 2023 20:22:24 UTC (21,304 KB)
    [v3] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 03:47:06 UTC (21,346 KB)
    Pan Lu, Hritik Bansal, Tony Xia, Jiacheng Liu, Chunyuan Li, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Hao Cheng, Kai-Wei Chang, Michel Galley, Jianfeng Gao

Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) exhibit impressive problem-solving skills in many tasks and domains, but their ability in mathematical reasoning in visual contexts has not been systematically studied. To bridge this gap, we present MathVista, a benchmark designed to combine challenges from diverse mathematical and visual tasks. It consists of 6,141 examples, derived from 28 existing multimodal datasets involving mathematics and 3 newly created datasets (i.e., IQTest, FunctionQA, and PaperQA). Completing these tasks requires fine-grained, deep visual understanding and compositional reasoning, which all state-of-the-art foundation models find challenging. With MathVista, we have conducted a comprehensive, quantitative evaluation of 12 prominent foundation models. The best-performing GPT-4V model achieves an overall accuracy of 49.9%, substantially outperforming Bard, the second-best performer, by 15.1%. Our in-depth analysis reveals that the superiority of GPT-4V is mainly attributed to its enhanced visual perception and mathematical reasoning. However, GPT-4V still falls short of human performance by 10.4%, as it often struggles to understand complex figures and perform rigorous reasoning. This significant gap underscores the critical role that MathVista will play in the development of general-purpose AI agents capable of tackling mathematically intensive and visually rich real-world tasks. We further explore the new ability of self-verification, the application of self-consistency, and the interactive chatbot capabilities of GPT-4V, highlighting its promising potential for future research. The project is available at this https URL.

------------

`[2310.20381] A Systematic Evaluation of GPT-4V's Multimodal Capability for Medical Image Analysis <https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.20381>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sun, 21 Jan 2024 01:34:09 GMT
    Submission history From: Zhanyu Wang [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 31 Oct 2023 11:39:09 UTC (22,061 KB)
    [v2] Fri, 3 Nov 2023 06:07:00 UTC (22,060 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 6 Nov 2023 10:57:24 UTC (22,060 KB)
    [v4] Sun, 21 Jan 2024 01:34:09 UTC (36,565 KB)
    [v5] Tue, 30 Jan 2024 19:32:19 UTC (36,565 KB)
    Yingshu Li, Yunyi Liu, Zhanyu Wang, Xinyu Liang, Lei Wang, Lingqiao Liu, Leyang Cui, Zhaopeng Tu, Longyue Wang, Luping Zhou

This work conducts an evaluation of GPT-4V's multimodal capability for medical image analysis, with a focus on three representative tasks of radiology report generation, medical visual question answering, and medical visual grounding. For the evaluation, a set of prompts is designed for each task to induce the corresponding capability of GPT-4V to produce sufficiently good outputs. Three evaluation ways including quantitative analysis, human evaluation, and case study are employed to achieve an in-depth and extensive evaluation. Our evaluation shows that GPT-4V excels in understanding medical images and is able to generate high-quality radiology reports and effectively answer questions about medical images. Meanwhile, it is found that its performance for medical visual grounding needs to be substantially improved. In addition, we observe the discrepancy between the evaluation outcome from quantitative analysis and that from human evaluation. This discrepancy suggests the limitations of conventional metrics in assessing the performance of large language models like GPT-4V and the necessity of developing new metrics for automatic quantitative analysis.

------------

`[2311.09127] Jailbreaking GPT-4V via Self-Adversarial Attacks with System Prompts <https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09127>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Sat, 20 Jan 2024 18:55:51 GMT
    Submission history From: Yixin Liu [view email]
    [v1] Wed, 15 Nov 2023 17:17:39 UTC (2,238 KB)
    [v2] Sat, 20 Jan 2024 18:55:51 UTC (2,697 KB)
    Yuanwei Wu, Xiang Li, Yixin Liu, Pan Zhou and Lichao Sun

Existing work on jailbreak Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has focused primarily on adversarial examples in model inputs, with less attention to vulnerabilities, especially in model API. To fill the research gap, we carry out the following work: 1) We discover a system prompt leakage vulnerability in GPT-4V. Through carefully designed dialogue, we successfully extract the internal system prompts of GPT-4V. This finding indicates potential exploitable security risks in MLLMs; 2) Based on the acquired system prompts, we propose a novel MLLM jailbreaking attack method termed SASP (Self-Adversarial Attack via System Prompt). By employing GPT-4 as a red teaming tool against itself, we aim to search for potential jailbreak prompts leveraging stolen system prompts. Furthermore, in pursuit of better performance, we also add human modification based on GPT-4's analysis, which further improves the attack success rate to 98.7\%; 3) We evaluated the effect of modifying system prompts to defend against jailbreaking attacks. Results show that appropriately designed system prompts can significantly reduce jailbreak success rates. Overall, our work provides new insights into enhancing MLLM security, demonstrating the important role of system prompts in jailbreaking. This finding could be leveraged to greatly facilitate jailbreak success rates while also holding the potential for defending against jailbreaks.

------------

`[2312.07343] Can ChatGPT Play the Role of a Teaching Assistant in an Introductory Programming Course? <https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.07343>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 14:29:07 GMT
    Submission history From: Dhruv Kumar [view email]
    [v1] Tue, 12 Dec 2023 15:06:44 UTC (116 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 14:29:07 UTC (123 KB)
    Anishka, Atharva Mehta, Nipun Gupta, Aarav Balachandran, Dhruv Kumar, Pankaj Jalote

The emergence of Large language models (LLMs) is expected to have a major impact on education. This paper explores the potential of using ChatGPT, an LLM, as a virtual Teaching Assistant (TA) in an Introductory Programming Course. We evaluate ChatGPT's capabilities by comparing its performance with that of human TAs in some of the important TA functions. The TA functions which we focus on include (1) grading student code submissions, and (2) providing feedback to undergraduate students in an introductory programming course. Firstly, we assess ChatGPT's proficiency in grading student code submissions using a given grading rubric and compare its performance with the grades assigned by human TAs. Secondly, we analyze the quality and relevance of the feedback provided by ChatGPT. This evaluation considers how well ChatGPT addresses mistakes and offers suggestions for improvement in student solutions from both code correctness and code quality perspectives. We conclude with a discussion on the implications of integrating ChatGPT into computing education for automated grading, personalized learning experiences, and instructional support.

------------

`[2401.10273] Revolutionizing Pharma: Unveiling the AI and LLM Trends in the Pharmaceutical Industry <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10273>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 04:47:20 GMT
    Submission history From: Yu Han [view email]
    [v1] Fri, 5 Jan 2024 04:01:09 UTC (1,014 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 04:47:20 UTC (1,011 KB)
    Yu Han, Jingwen Tao

This document offers a critical overview of the emerging trends and significant advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) within the pharmaceutical industry. Detailing its application across key operational areas, including research and development, animal testing, clinical trials, hospital clinical stages, production, regulatory affairs, quality control and other supporting areas, the paper categorically examines AI's role in each sector. Special emphasis is placed on cutting-edge AI technologies like machine learning algorithms and their contributions to various aspects of pharmaceutical operations. Through this comprehensive analysis, the paper highlights the transformative potential of AI in reshaping the pharmaceutical industry's future.

------------

`[2305.00418] An Empirical Study of Using Large Language Models for Unit Test Generation <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00418>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:09:17 GMT
    Submission history From: Mohammed Latif Siddiq [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 30 Apr 2023 07:28:06 UTC (816 KB)
    [v2] Mon, 30 Oct 2023 01:30:16 UTC (516 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 07:09:17 UTC (581 KB)
    [v4] Sat, 9 Mar 2024 00:59:18 UTC (581 KB)
    Mohammed Latif Siddiq, Joanna C. S. Santos, Ridwanul Hasan Tanvir, Noshin Ulfat, Fahmid Al Rifat, and Vinicius Carvalho Lopes

A code generation model generates code by taking a prompt from a code comment, existing code, or a combination of both. Although code generation models (e.g., GitHub Copilot) are increasingly being adopted in practice, it is unclear whether they can successfully be used for unit test generation without fine-tuning for a strongly typed language like Java. To fill this gap, we investigated how well three models (Codex, GPT-3.5-Turbo, and StarCoder) can generate unit tests. We used two benchmarks (HumanEval and Evosuite SF110) to investigate the effect of context generation on the unit test generation process. We evaluated the models based on compilation rates, test correctness, test coverage, and test smells. We found that the Codex model achieved above 80% coverage for the HumanEval dataset, but no model had more than 2% coverage for the EvoSuite SF110 benchmark. The generated tests also suffered from test smells, such as Duplicated Asserts and Empty Tests.

------------

`[2401.03506] DiarizationLM: Speaker Diarization Post-Processing with Large Language Models <https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.03506>`__

::

    replaced with revised version Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:53:36 GMT
    Submission history From: Quan Wang [view email]
    [v1] Sun, 7 Jan 2024 14:54:57 UTC (174 KB)
    [v2] Tue, 16 Jan 2024 23:12:55 UTC (175 KB)
    [v3] Mon, 22 Jan 2024 18:53:36 UTC (177 KB)
    [v4] Tue, 6 Feb 2024 22:38:24 UTC (177 KB)
    Quan Wang, Yiling Huang, Guanlong Zhao, Evan Clark, Wei Xia, Hank Liao

In this paper, we introduce DiarizationLM, a framework to leverage large language models (LLM) to post-process the outputs from a speaker diarization system. Various goals can be achieved with the proposed framework, such as improving the readability of the diarized transcript, or reducing the word diarization error rate (WDER). In this framework, the outputs of the automatic speech recognition (ASR) and speaker diarization systems are represented as a compact textual format, which is included in the prompt to an optionally finetuned LLM. The outputs of the LLM can be used as the refined diarization results with the desired enhancement. As a post-processing step, this framework can be easily applied to any off-the-shelf ASR and speaker diarization systems without retraining existing components. Our experiments show that a finetuned PaLM 2-S model can reduce the WDER by rel. 55.5% on the Fisher telephone conversation dataset, and rel. 44.9% on the Callhome English dataset.
